DURBAN - WITH less than 10 days before the deadline to apply for National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFS) 277 683 applications had been received thus far, a significant increase of over 100 % applications received during the same period last years, NSFAS said. KwaZulu-Natal is leading with 80480 applications, followed by Gauteng with 59542. There are only seven days left before the closing of the applications for 2019 student funding. Applications will close next Friday November 30, 2018, and those wishing to further their studies in 2019 are urged to send through their applications. NSFAS Spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said on average, NSFAS has been receiving 3 500 applications per day. He said the numbers could be attributed to the easy-to-complete online application system that allows applicants to complete the application within five minutes. He said the projected target set by the Department of Higher Education and Training for the NSFAS funded students over the medium-term expenditure framework period was 400 920 (TVET colleges); and 377 050 (University) eligible students obtaining financial assistance annually. “Since 2019 NSFAS applications do not go through Post Office services. We have two channels of applications only, which is the online channel or the National Youth Development Agency centres (NYDA) offices nationwide. To reach learners in the rural areas, NSFAS has outreach teams that visit communities to assist with the applications. All applications done through the outreach are captured on the system, real-time,” he added. Mamabolo said there would be no extended window for the 2019 applications, therefore NSFAS would not accept any late applications after the deadline. Important message for applicants: 1. Do not change your cell phone number or email address used for the application. These will be used by NSFAS to communicate the result of your application to you. 2. Applicants who wish to inquire about their application status or contest funding decisions can do so by calling NSFAS contact center toll free number 0860 007 327. 3. NSFAS will only fund applicants who have been accepted on an approved course at a university or a TVET college. Sunday Tribune