Durban - Police have made a breakthrough after arresting 14 members of a gang that has allegedly terrorised residents in KwaDabeka and has been linked to 18 murders in Durban and surrounding areas. The announcement of the arrests was made by eThekwini deputy mayor Fawzia Peer on Friday. She detailed the gang's modus operandi. “The Glebelands hostel activity has somehow come over to KK hostel (in KwaDabeka, near Pinetown). Murders are taking place inside and outside the hostel,“ Peer said. She said the arrests were a joint operation that included Metro Police’s Advanced Unit, Dog Unit, Saps’ Crime Intelligence and Organised Crime. The Advanced Unit team was formed by Metro Police to work with crime intelligence when they are doing big investigations.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video EThekwini Chief Whip of Council, Nelly Nyanisa, said the gang had been linked to 18 murders. She said they did not want the violence to escalate to Glebelands hostel proportions. More than 100 people have been killed in the past four years in violence that has become part of everyday life at Glebelands hostel. She said the gang operated in the same way that they operated in Glebelands by demanding payments for beds from hostel residents every week. People from KK hostel would either have to pay up or face the possibility of being killed, she said. Investigations into the matter began in May this year and once police had enough evidence the suspects were arrested in a two week period that began from October 27. Nyanisa said the situation had become so dire, that when they got wind of these acts of violence, the Metro Police discussed the matter with the South African Police Service and a team was formed to investigate the gang’s activities. More arrests are expected, she said. As police were making their arrests, they went on the hunt for the ringleader who was identified as Philani Mavimbela who had been hiding. Mavimbela was finally arrested and they found him with firearms and ammunition. “When he was taken to court, what really took them by surprise was that a whole lot of people who were involved with him in his activities were there to give him moral support,” she said. Peer said witnesses to the gangs’ activities who were at Pinetown Magistrates Court alerted police that some gang members who were involved were in the courtroom. Police immediately arrested six suspects who were in the courtroom," said Peer. The suspects are facing murder, attempted murder and possession of an illegal firearm. Thirteen of the 14 suspects had their bail applications denied, while one is expected to appear in court soon. The 13 suspects are expected to appear at the Pinetown Magistrates court on December 13. Daily News