Durban - THE festive season is around the corner, with Diwali comes the fireworks and the loud bangs that your pets hate. When handling fireworks and explosives, it is important to ensure that we keep in mind the safety and comfort of those around us, especially our animals. “If you have an anxious pet, it’s important to know what you can do to relieve the stress they may feel,” said Dr. Guy Fyvie, nutritional advisor at Hill’s Pet Nutrition.  Fyvie recommends that pet parents look out for the following signs of anxious behaviour; - Hiding away - Bowel and bladder accidents - Excessive panting - Inability to settle down - Shaking - Yawning - Excessive licking or chewing - Attempting to escape their environment - Barking and howling more excessively than usual The use of big bangs is prohibited and over the years, the community has been urged not to use big bangs during Diwali celebrations. Here's how to help your pets during this stressful time, according to Fyvie: - Keep familiar noises or sounds playing in the house such as the TV and some background music. The more it seems like an everyday, normal situation, the better. - Create a comfortable, smaller, space in the house for your dog or cat to retreat to when they’re feeling anxious. As a distraction from the loud noise, provide them with a tasty chew toy. - Close curtains so the flash of the fireworks isn’t visible. - Keep outside noises at bay by keeping the windows and doors in the house closed. - For outdoor cats who come and go as they please, rather place a litter tray inside and close the doors and the cat flap, so they can’t go outside that evening. - If you can’t stay at home with your pets, make sure someone else they trust is there to calm and reassure them – the less changes during this time the better. - Ask your veterinarian about specially formulated foods which help alleviate stress such as * Hill's Prescription Diet i/d Stress for dogs and Hill's Prescription Diet c/d Stress for cats. For severe cases, they may recommend certain medication. The use of fireworks is regulated by South African bylaws under the Explosives Act, 1956, which states, among other things, that no fireworks should be set off, detonated or exploded within 200m of any hospital, clinic, petrol station, old-age home or nursing home, or animal welfare organisation or institution, and that using fireworks to frighten pets is against the law. To find out if your dogs or cats are anxious, take the Hill's stress test here. Here are some numbers to jot down; Police Flying squad: 10111 Durban Metro Police and Fire Brigade: 031 361 000 Ambulance: 10177 SPCA Durban: 031 579 6500 or 083 212 6103 SPCA Kloof: 031 764 1212/3 or 073 335 9322 Kitten Action: 031 764 3845 SUNDAY TRIBUNE