Durban - KWAZULU-NATAL Health MEC Dr Sbongseni Dhlomo has announced a new stipend of R3500 for community caregivers. This is a sizable boost for the caregivers who have been earning R1500 per month. Speaking at a ceremony to officially announce the stipend increase in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday, Dhlomo paid tribute to the province’s 10 771 community caregivers, thanking them for showing dedication in taking primary healthcare services to poor people’s homes. Dhlomo's announcement came as the National Minimum Wage Bill was signed into law by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday. Community caregivers render a host of services which include assessing clients; facilitating treatment for chronic and other ailments; identifying and tracing those who default on medication and referring them to hospitals accordingly. They also test girls aged 15 and upwards for pregnancy. This has helped to significantly increase the number of women who present for early ante-natal booking at clinics – meaning that any underlying ailments which could adversely affect the pregnancy are picked up early. Dhlomo said the caregivers would sometimes get to homes and find that a patient has not eaten. “From the little that they have, they’d go buy bread or maas for the gogo and give her pills. In some instances, they’d help buy soap to help the elderly wash their clothes. So, these are people who have a calling. The government had talks with the workers and a decision was reached on the minimum wage for everyone, which was R3500,” Dhlomo said. He said they would be backpaid from June. MEC Dhlomo also congratulated former community caregivers who upgraded their careers, and are now nurses and nutrition advisors. Former community caregiver Bongi Nzimande, from Ngubeni in Pietermaritzburg, was among those who has upskilled herself. "I'm from a very poor household, where what we lived in could barely be called a home. It was built from mud. From the stipend that we were earning, I was able to save up money and buy clothes to resell. Once I had completed a course at the University of KwaZulu-Natal after receiving a bursary, I started working as a nutrition advisor,” she said. Sunday Tribune