DURBAN - “He had been working late, but came home early that day. We sat having a cup of tea in front of the television. He squeezed my hand and we smiled at each other. Then the neighbour knocked on the door.” That was the last moment shared by Denise and her husband Nathan Ganas, before the Nathan was gunned down by armed men in their driveway and her life was turned upside down. Last night insurance giant, Momentum, announced it would be paying the R2.4 million life insurance claim to Denise, which it had previously declined to do so on the grounds that Nathan had not disclosed raised blood sugar levels when applying for his policy. This week there was massive public outrage on social media platforms after the story was published. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Speaking to the Independent on Saturday on Wednesday, Denise said she was overwhelmed with the support shown to her from fellow South Africans around the country and across the globe. “I couldn’t get to sleep until the early hours of this morning, I was just so excited to hear the news,” she said. She recalled those last few moments with her husband before her neighbour arrived. Having gone out and up the driveway with her neighbour,  they were suddenly approached by armed men who threatened to kill her if she did not hand over the keys to the car in her driveway. She told them she did not have keys to the vehicle. Nathan Ganas came running out to save her and the men opened fire on the 41 year old father. He died from gunshot wounds. Momentum’s turnaround came last night when it issued a statement saying the market reaction in the past two days created the impression that insurers were looking for reasons not to pay a claim. “Momentum is in the business of paying claims and we have taken the criticism to heart”, stated the release, adding they have created a solution that will pay an amount equal to the death benefit (limited to a maximum of R3 million) in the case of violent crime. This will include existing and future life cover clients. It further stated that payouts, including that to Ganas, would be funded from its profits and not from clients’ premiums. Catch the full interview in The Independent on Saturday this week.