DURBAN - AN ADAMS College pupil has suffered a suspected broken leg after he was allegedly attacked by five schoolboys at the historic Durban boarding school's premises on Tuesday morning. The 16-year-old pupil had been chased by the five schoolboys when he fell, leading to them allegedly repeatedly trampling on him. The incident follows revelations on social media this week by current and former Adams College pupils that they were allegedly sexually assaulted by teachers at the school. They said some teachers had improper sexual relationships with pupils and that in some instances, girl pupils had fallen pregnant. The victim's uncle, a primary school principal, told the Sunday Tribune his 16-year-old nephew had been preparing for an exam when the five aggressors pounced. He said the Grade 10 pupil is recovering at a hospital in eManzimtoti where X-rays have been taken to determine the extent of the injuries to his right leg. “When he tried to run away he fell on the floor. His pursuers kicked him while lying on the ground until another boy separated them,” he said. The school principal was not available for comment, said a secretary at the school. KZN Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa condemned the scourge of bullying at schools in the province. He said the department was not aware of the incident, but would investigate. Mthethwa said the department was currently investigating allegations of teachers sleeping with pupils at the school and would investigate the bullying incident as well. “We plead with parents to lend a hand to eradicate the symptoms of violence at our schools to make them a safe place for children,” Mthethwa said. The victim's uncle, who is not being named to protect the identity of the pupil, was due to meet the school principal on Thursday. He said they would decide after the meeting whether to pursue criminal charges or not. Some of the historic school's alumni included the Presidents of Botswana and Uganda - Milton Obote and Sir Seretse Khama, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, ANC founder Dr John Dube and many other leaders in the ANC, including present-day ministers.  nkululeko.nene@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE