DURBAN - ALLEGATIONS of sexual abuse of pupils at Durban’s prestigious Adams College are being investigated by the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education. This follows a social media campaign launched by former girls at the school who have started sharing their stories on Twitter and Facebook. It is alleged some current pupils are also involved in sexual relations with male teachers. Several claim to have brought the allegations to the attention of the principal as far back as 2013, but say the issue was covered up. Also read: Teachers at Durban's historic Adams College in sexual abuse scandal Principal Thulani Khumalo said the school is conducting an inquiry into the allegations and that a report would be sent to the department. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Departmental spokesperson Sicelo Khuzwayo said the allegations were viewed in a serious light, particularly given the alarming nature of some of them. One pupil who could not be named because she is a minor told the Sunday Tribune how one teacher had taken advantage of her. “The teacher lured me into attending private tuition with him and then tried to force himself on me. I pushed him away and did not tolerate what he was trying to do.” Another story of a former pupil who was allegedly impregnated by a teacher and told to abort her baby, has also been doing the rounds on social media. The group of pupils said they had started this social media campaign to get the message into the open, hoping that some action would be taken. The pupils of the 165-year-old school have been using hashtags to spread their message - #AdamsCollege TrashyTeachers, #SaveAdams CollegeFromPaedophiles and #SaveOurGirls. Former pupil Grace Mtolo posted: “There are teachers that prey on young students and then blame it on the length of skirts or how they (the girls) threw themselves at them. Teacher-student relationships are prohibited regardless of whether they are consensual or not. #AdamsCollege” Another pupil said: “We are putting an end to teachers who take advantage of learners, sleeping with them casually, impregnating them and forcing them to terminate the pregnancies. Emotionally abusing them, harassing them and expecting them to be okay with that.” The historic school’s alumni include the presidents of Botswana and Uganda - Milton Obote and Sir Seretse Khama - Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, ANC founder Dr John Dube and many other leaders in the ANC, including current MPs. Khuzwayo said the department would take strong action against any teacher involved in sexual liaisons with pupils. “Teacher and pupil sexual relations are prohibited. Teachers are expected to play a parental role at schools,” said Khuzwayo. The SA Council for Educators (Sace) said it condemned teacher-pupil relationships. Spokesperson Thembinkosi Ndhlovu said the council investigated all complaints it received. “If the teacher is found guilty, he or she is struck off the role and will not be able to teach again. Their names are also submitted to the National Child Protection Register,” said Ndhlovu. In the council’s 2016/2017 annual report, the body stated that the teaching profession continued to experience sexual relationships between pupils and educators despite the fact that this constitutes misconduct and gender-based violence. “A qualitative study on factors and conditions facilitating and contributing to this kind of misconduct will be looked into,” the report read. The report said there were 99 cases of sexual misconduct with regards to rape and love relations with pupils reported to Sace in 2016/2017. KwaZulu-Natal ranked as the second highest for these cases, with Mpumalanga being first. There were 18 such cases reported in KZN and 25 in Mpumalanga. “We are currently compiling our 2017/2018 report and new statistics will be available when this is done,” said Ndhlovu. The SA Democratic Teachers’ Union’s spokesperson Nomusa Cembi said the organisation condemned teacher-pupil relationships and this was strongly reflected in its code of conduct. “We were one of the first organisations to say that Sace must strike off teachers from their roll if they have committed such acts. “It is against the law, immoral and just unacceptable,” said Cembi.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE