Camposreal has written Prayers for Deliverance from Curses and the financial manual Kingdom Principles for Financial Freedom which guide people on how to deal with oppressive circumstances and financial woes. Camposreal, 38, now lives in Alberton, Johannesburg, with her husband, Franccini Camposreal, 36, and their 12-year-old son, David. Her first published book, Prayers for Deliverance from Curses, was released in December. She held a seminar based on her finance manual, Kingdom Principles for Financial Freedom, at Joshua’s Generation Church, Windmill Park, Extension 8, Johannesburg. Further seminars are planned at the venue on July 7 and August 4. “My first book is a compilation of some of the most powerful prayers and declarations that will destroy curses and release God’s blessings in people’s lives,” she said. “It is designed to help people live according to God’s will and enjoy health, wealth and abundance through the word of God. “I felt there was a need for this book so that I could empower people to pray for their own healing and relief from their circumstances. “As a pastor, I pray for people to be healed from various illnesses, financial and marital problems, as well as addictions. “Over the years, I documented my prayers and would give them away as a series of leaflets to people. These evolved into Prayers for Deliverance from Curses. Camposreal, who is also a motivational speaker, said that her book was motivational - it encouraged people to pray and trust in God for deliverance from addiction, suicidal tendencies and oppression. She said “bloodline curses” (inherited genetically, like diabetes) were also addressed in her book. Of the last gathering, she said: “The seminar was meant to help empower people walk in financial freedom,” said Camposreal. “It’s for people of all religions, races and cultures. I started researching the topic of kingdom finances about six years ago. I researched the Bible, read books and listened to talks on the topic. “I prayed about and discussed the topic at length with my spiritual leaders. The manual has also been turned into a book.” The seminars are aimed at assisting economic growth by helping people start small businesses. The creation of such businesses would provide jobs and, in the process, help to overcome crime, said Camposreal. Other speakers at the seminar included Pastor Morris Mngomezulu, Moses Thindisa and Nthabiseng Mathenjwa. To find out more about the seminars or obtain a copy of the book, call 0825183768. SUNDAY TRIBUNE