DURBAN - The man accused of murdering Durban North woman Siam Lee was granted R40 000 bail in the Durban Magistrates Court on Wednesday. Magistrate Mohamed Motala said evidence before the court showed that Mr P, who cannot be named as he faces an unrelated rape charge, could not be denied bail. Motala said the accused’s personal and business circumstances were considered in granting him bail. Mr P, a 29-year-old Assagay businessman, looks after his mother, brother and employs 17 people in his business. The court heard during the bail application, which was held over 12 days, that Mr P had no previous convictions. Motala said Mr P’s bail conditions included that he had to stay with his family in Sobantu, Pietermaritzburg, and not at his posh Assagay home. He cannot make contact with any of the witnesses or complainants and he also has to report to the investigating officer if he intends to leave the province to conduct business in Joburg, the court heard. The accused faces several charges, including kidnapping and murdering Lee, fraud, crimen injuria, rape, attempted murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances and pointing a firearm. Mr P has been detained at Westville Prison for almost five months until he was granted bail on Wednesday. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Lee's mother, Carmen Nan Lee, who was supported by the DA Women’s Network (Dawn), was seen crying in court. Speaking to Independent Media after the bail decision, she said the bail decision was an “anti-climax”, but she respected the court’s decision. “This is not the trial, this is just the bail. There is so much overwhelming evidence to prove that this man murdered my daughter Siam,” she said. Carmen Nan said she missed Siam being around her and cried as she spoke about her daughter who was murdered in January. “Oh God, I just miss looking at her beautiful face, talking to her, she would wear her hair like Amy Winehouse… she was so gorgeous,” she said. “She was not an overly bubbly 20-year-old, she was actually a very self-conscious person. She was nothing like her mother. She was really coming out of her shell, I was watching her blossom into this beautiful, powerful strong lady,” she said crying. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The DA Women's Network, which has been in court during the court appearances, said it was disappointed to see the accused released on bail. They remained hopeful of a conviction after the trial. Follow @SundayTribuneSA journalist @Nabeelah_Shaikh on Twitter SUNDAY TRIBUNE