Blair, 26, was admitted to the rehabilitation centre for a heroin addiction on Sunday, February 20, 2011. She died three days later from the effects of toxic medication. The former managing director of the centre, Conrad Lawrence Cooper, and Dr Steven Edward Stewart, a graduate in mental health from the faculty of psychiatry at the military hospital in Pretoria, have been charged with culpable homicide. They are expected to make their first appearance on Wednesday. Last year, an inquest found the centre and its staff, including Stewart, who was the resident doctor, responsible for Trouchet’s death. The findings of the inquest paint a damning picture of the management of the South Coast Recovery Centre and the handling of Trouchet’s case. Magistrate B Munilall said Trouchet, a hairsylist from Cape Town, had applied to undergo its drug rehabilitation programme on February 10 2011. In her admission application 10 days later, she provided details of drug usage including cocaine, heroin, “tik” and “weed”. Fellow patient Charlotte Amy Delmot testified that while Trouchet had been coherent, funny and witty on the first two days, she was extremely sleepy on the third and fell asleep with a cigarette in her mouth. Patients and staff were unsuccessful in waking her and when house mother Carmen Stewart intervened Trouchet “appeared lifeless”. Following the testimonies of more than 30 witnesses, Munilall concluded the cause of death was the administration of a high dosage of detoxification drugs and failure to monitor the effects of medication that “was potentially toxic”. Inadequate, insufficient and inappropriate monitoring was the norm,” said Munilall. “The South Coast Recovery Centre, the night before Trouchet’s demise, did not have a registered or enrolled nurse available. The centre relied on the ‘buddy’ (another patient) to monitor her. “Experts have told us they would have administered the medication in a hospital setting. They also told the court about the type of monitoring that was appropriate and the equipment required for optimum monitoring. Sadly, that was lacking at the centre.” The court established that the South Coast Recovery Centre did not have emergency medical equipment which should have included a bag valve mask, defibrillator, gurney, ECG machine, IV lines, adrenalin and emergency drugs. “Equally, if not more important, the enrolled nurse was administering scheduled drugs when clearly she was not permitted to. She conceded that she did not even know what signs or symptoms to look for after drugs were administered.” One expert who testified during the five-year inquest was emergency doctor Deven Moodley, of Chatsmed Garden Hospital, who said observation during detoxification was required hourly by a qualified nurse. Trouchet's death, said Munilall, “was brought about by acts or omissions involving or amounting to an offence.” Trouchet’s sister, Loren, welcomed the decision. “It’s been a long time and as a family we have been through a painful experience. We are getting better and were happy when the court found South Coast Recovery Centre had caused the death of my sister and that someone should take responsibility. We followed up on this matter to raise awareness for others to be aware of how badly some of these centres are run. We hoped a lesson could be learned.” Cooper refused to comment when contacted. - Additional reporting Fred Kockott SUNDAY TRIBUNE