DURBAN - A 63-year-old Durban man’s hopes of running his 20th Comrades Marathon were dashed on Monday when a tear-gas canister fired into a crowd protesting outside Chatsworth police station broke his shin bone. Rennie Govender’s hopes of joining the elusive “double green” club were shattered. “I doubt I will ever run again,” said the grandfather, who lives in the neighbourhood where 9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj was shot dead in a hijacking. Govender had joined a throng of about 1000 people who had converged on the Chatsworth police station to demand improved policing. He left in an ambulance. Also read: WATCH: Rubber bullets, stun grenades fly at protest over Shallcross girl's death When the Sunday Tribune visited him at Westville Hospital on Thursday, he was forlorn about his leg injury and angry with the police. He had been roughly manhandled and even assaulted after being injured.  Rennie Govender, who planned to run his 20th Comrades, contemplates the long road to recovery. A tear-gas canister fired by police at this week’s protest outside the Chatsworth police station broke his shin bone. He doesn't think he’ll ever be able to compete in the epic road race again. Picture: Nqobile Mbonambi/African News Agency (ANA) “The doctor says it will take six months to heal,” said Govender, who teared up talking about having completed 19 marathons. Completing 10 races is viewed as an awesome feat, with the seasoned runners given green race numbers. Completing 20 earns the veteran marathon runners the “double green” accolade. Govender said police should not have used force to disperse the protesters. He said he and his wife, Shirley, had joined the gathering at about 7pm and moved closer to the station entrance when he noticed a commotion. “Many people were there for a long time and wanted to be addressed by the station’s head,” said Govender. He said although people had become “boisterous”, they had not been violent. “Without warning, a policeman fired a smoke bomb (tear-gas canister) at those standing near the gate. The canister bounced on the tarmac and struck my shin. It floored me,” said Govender. “I tried to join those who had fled but couldn’t get up,” he said. When two police officers approached, he said he appealed to them to handle him with care. “Please be careful. My leg is broken. Look, it’s dangling,” he had said. Govender said the policemen dragged him to a parking lot. Instead of arranging medical attention, a police officer used a mop handle to tie a splint to his injured leg. “I was left to lie on the floor between two cars, writhing in pain,” said Govender. “An officer addressed as ‘brigadier’ said to me, ‘Ja, so you’re the one who caused trouble. Good, you deserve it. Leave him here,’ he told the others,” claimed Govender. “When I responded it wasn’t me, an officer slapped me. Another kicked me and one stepped on my hand,” he alleged. When Govender was struck by the projectile, the ensuing chaos had separated him from his wife. She didn’t know what had happened to him. Govender said a pastor at the station lent him his phone to call a neighbour in the crowd who could alert his wife and have him taken to hospital. However, policemen at the gate would not let the neighbour in, said Govender When his wife Shirley, a hospital matron, realised what had happened, she urged the police to let her in. But they would not budge and eventually she got in by sneaking through a side gate. “My husband was hypothermic. He had lost a lot of blood and was slipping in and out of consciousness. An ambulance eventually took him to hospital nearly four hours after he had been injured. He could have died if he had remained there any longer,” she said. “The treatment we received from the police was appalling. We are considering laying charges.” SAPS spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naidoo said: “All those who were injured were requested to report the matter to the nearest police station or the Independent Police Investigative Directorate for investigation.” Ven Moodley, an executive member of the Chatsworth Athletics Club to which Govender belonged, said they were “devastated and saddened by the senseless injury to a harmless pensioner”. Click to read more on #SadiaSukhraj Govender, who had retired in November after long-standing service with a Durban vehicle manufacturer, said: “I don’t regret joining the gathering crime is rampant in our community. If it becomes necessary for me to join such gatherings in the future, I will.”  mervyn.naidoo@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE