DURBAN - Enviroserv's Shongweni landfill can accept certain waste streams again. This follows a KwaZulu-Natal High Court dismissing Upper Highway Air’s interdict application on Thursday to overturn a decision by the Department of Environmental Affairs to allow the company to accept specific waste. On Thursday, KwaZulu-Natal High Court Judge Ploos van Amstel dismissed the interdict application of civil group Upper Highway Air (UHA), thereby allowing the conditions of the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) to take effect. The Shongweni site will resume operations shortly, under close supervision by the DEA, said EnviroServ spokesperson Thabiso Taaka. In August last year, the DEA closed down EnviroServ’s landfill site for failure to comply with the law, thus potentially threatening human health as well as the environment. Taaka said a DEA-approved remediation plan was put in place. This included the front face of the landfill being capped to limit the escape of odours and to prevent infiltration of rain water. A gas extraction and treatment system, involving a bio-scrubber and gas flare, were also installed. “The leachate storage tanks and stone drainage layer have been covered and linked to the gas collection network to reduce venting of hydrogen sulfide,” added Taaka. “The company complied with the remediation plan, so much so that, last December, Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa amended the conditions of both the suspension notice and compliance notice because she was satisfied with progress which had been made, and in so doing permitted EnviroServ to accept limited waste types. “When communities complained, we listened. We consulted leading experts here and abroad and implemented the resulting remediation plan", added Taaka. But UHA’s lawyer, Charmane Nel, rubbished this, saying this week’s judgment “merely lifted the temporary interdict obtained by UHA to halt operations pending the litigation to overturn the minister’s decision finally”. She said the UHA was seeking orders “directing proper remediation of the site and a permanent interdict preventing Enviroserv from trading from the site”. "Among other things, its continued nuisance impacts are unlawful,” said Nel. She said Molewa had ignored EnviroServ’s “own data showing remediation had not been successful and its flare was not working”. “The department has failed to date to demonstrate any effort to properly scrutinise Enviroserv’s alleged remediation. The judgment of the high court confirms the licence remains suspended and EnviroServ fails to inform its clients (that) it is only permitted to accept solid, inorganic waste containing no sulphur for six months and not a day longer, until the minister says otherwise. “It also fails to disclose that it admitted in court papers that of the R70 million spent on remediation only R18m was on remediation and R44m on legal and consulting fees. Enviro- serv has failed to listen to the community at all and is anything but a good neighbour.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE