Pietermaritzburg - One person has died and the lower part of the Pietermaritzburg CBD came to a standstill on Friday morning after a Wild West style shootout at the Brookside Taxi Rank in East Street near the N3 in what is believed to be a dispute over taxi routes between Howick and Pietermaritzburg. The dead person was a bystander at the taxi rank. A street vendor relived the horror of the shooting. "I saw him as he fell down and make his last movements. It is so unfair because that person was just going about his routine when he got shot, there was a smell of gunfire," the shocked vendor said. In addition, taxis blockaded Pietermaritz and Boshoff streets. A bakkie was also set alight. Rescue service ER24 confirmed that one person was killed in the heavy exchange of gunfire at the rank. Paramedics found his body with multiple gunshot wounds. A second person received a gunshot wound in the leg as was treated at the rank before being taken to hospital. A total of four people were injured. A witness said that heavy caliber weapons being used at the Howick Taxi rank in East Street and that gunmen were running on foot along the N3 towards Liberty Mall.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Another witness on the off-ramp of N3 near Brookside Mall said there was shooting like crazy and taxi drivers were running around with rifles. Pupils at the nearby ML Sultan High School had to run for cover. "It was during our lunch break at around ten in the morning when all of a sudden we heard the exchange of gunfire and that time everyone ran for cover. You can imagine the chaos as kids took cover," said ateacher who did not want to be named. Dylan Meyrick from IPSS confirmed that six ambulances were dispatched to Brookside mall. Police spokesman Capt Nqobile Gwala was unable to give exact details but confirmed that police were at the scene and had closed down the entire East street area of the CBD. She said police and members of the Public Order Policing unit had been sent to the scene to restore order and "bring stability" to a taxi related dispute.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "The lower CBD from East Street towards the Brookside taxi rank and the N3 off-ramp is a no-go zone. Motorists are advised to stay away from the CBD," she said. Unconfirmed reports suggested 500 rounds of ammunition had been fired. The suspects fled on foot on the N3 towards Hilton.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. KwaZulu-Natal Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda visited the scene and urged commuters to remain calm. "Government is aware of the situation and we are working at ensuring that those responsible for this are dealt with through the law," Kaunda told commuters. He held a marathon meeting with operators in a bid to resolve the tensions. This is the second shooting at the rank this year. The Independent on Saturday and ANA