DURBAN - AMID growing calls for an end to the hate-mongering within the Muslim community, Moulana Syed Aftab Haider, a national spokesperson for the Shia community in South Africa, has spoken out about growing Shia-Sunni tensions. “We have to live in fear because of the continued threats and hate speech directed towards us in the last few weeks,” said Haider. He said up to now the Shia community had not been vocal about the hate speech, hoping that it would subside. “If we cannot be tolerant with each other, how can we be tolerant with everyone else?” he said. This past week some scholars continued to issue hate speech, yet no action had been taken against them. “We didn’t want to add fuel to the fire by going to the authorities because, if we do, it will openly become a Shia-Sunni war.” But Haider said the Shia community would be left with no choice but to ask the authorities to act if the hate-mongering continued. “There are some responsible members of the Sunni community who have been doing their bit to restore peace to the community. What the hate preachers don’t understand is that we are very much a mixed community in South Africa. There are instances where Shias are married to Sunnis and these families are able to be tolerant with each other. All that this hate is doing, is causing unnecessary tension.” Over the last two weeks, several Sunni Muslim organisations have withdrawn from the Cape Accord - an agreement designed to create peace and unity in the Muslim community. It was drafted in December and endorsed by about 25 organisations throughout the country. The accord was signed on June 3 when Islamic leaders from across the country gathered at Masjidul Quds in Cape Town’s Gatesville. This followed the attack on the Imam Hussain Shia-sect mosque in Verulam, which left one person, Abbas Essop, dead. Advocate Hafez Abubakr Mohamed, a founding member of the Cape Accord, said there were extremists in both the Sunni and Shia communities and that the hate-mongering on both sides needed to end. “This phenomenon is imported. We have never heard of such extremists in South African society until recently. Some individuals have come here with ideals from their home countries, which are not acceptable or in line with our constitution,” said Haider. But because the Cape Accord calls for unity among Shia and Sunni Muslims, some Islamic scholars have spoken against it and have labelled those who support it as Kafirs (unbelievers). The sentiments have led to divisions within the Muslim community, resulting in several organisations withdrawing from the Cape Accord. One Islamic scholar, Mufti Abdul Kader (AK) Hoosen, continued to make hateful remarks on a radio show this week. He said he was exercising his constitutional right to freedom of expression and religion by speaking out against the Shia community. Hoosen was contacted for comment by the Sunday Tribune, and also e-mailed questions, but had not responded at the time of going to press. During the radio show he said he was merely exposing what was in Shia books. “You can go to your courts, you can do whatever you want to.... You don’t intimidate us,” said Hoosen. Hoosen is being sued for R2 million for defamation and crimen injuria by a prominent Durban businessman and owner of the Ideals Group, Ebrahim Jadwat. A court date for the matter is pending. In court papers, Jadwat accused Hoosen of defamation and crimen injuria for statements made against him and the Shia community during a live broadcast on an Islamic radio station in July 2017. SUNDAY TRIBUNE