On Thursday, allegedly on the instruction of brothers Melvinathan Parumaul and Parlin Parumaul, several armed men overpowered security guards at Melton Adhesives warehouse in the Phoenix Industrial Park, hijacking the business premises. Three brothers owned and operated Melton Adhesives, until Vishvan Parumal bought the business outright in 2015. An elderly woman, said to be the siblings’ mother, was in the building and apparently would not leave the warehouse until the issue was resolved. A tense Vishvan stood outside with his employees. He told the Sunday Tribune his brothers had sold their shares in the family business to him. “They’re suffering sellers’ remorse,” he said. Police were called to intervene, Vishvan said, but left because it was a civil matter and they could not interfere, even though armed men had barricaded the building. Later that day, the court ordered Melvin and Parlin to return possession of the premises. They were interdicted from using a third party to gain access to the building and had to pay the legal costs of the action. Police were called to ensure the order was obeyed. Vishvan’s attorney, Tashya Giyapersad, said her client planned to bring further legal action against his brothers. “This was a shocking display of aggression and violence. It is a sad day when armed thugs flaunt the law in the face of the police, who felt compelled to do nothing,” she said. “We are proceeding with malicious damage to property and want full disclosure of the identity of the hired thugs, who carried guns.” But Melvin and Parlin are prepared for a court battle. In a joint statement, the siblings claimed they were the rightful owners of the property and were protecting it. “We acted to protect our property as a result of illegal activity thereon, and illegal occupation of the premises after termination of the lease. We used the services of a security company and the SAPS as a result of intimidation and threats received,” the statement read. They said they disagreed with the argument Vishvan raised in court and would respond via court processes. Giyapersad responded: “My client is the director of the company and has been an occupant for several years, paying rentals as and when due. If there are disputes, parties need to go to court, not take the law into their own hands.” The matter returns to court next month. SUNDAY TRIBUNE