DURBAN - GROWING up in the marginalised community of KwaXolo on the South Coast, Piwe Zulu has defied the odds to succeed in motorcycle racing. Now a Margate resident, Zulu, 33, started off-road motorbiking in 2010 and has since ridden for KTM Durban and RBS Yamaha in Pinetown, among others. To inspire other young people, Zulu reflected on the odds he had overcome in pursuing his passion. Biking became a dream for him as a young child after witnessing bikers making annual pilgrimages to Margate. Later, once he started working, he started dreaming of racing off-road bikes. “But I could not afford a motorbike. I had to work extra hours as a personal trainer and approach family and friends to save up for a motorbike. “Then once I got a bike, I had to put in extra hours on the track with experienced racers to learn the technical skills.” “I am thankful for each challenge and the opportunities I have had. The learning curves eventually made me victorious to the point where I was noticed by big brands such as Herbalife Nutrition and Yamaha. These sponsorships have since enabled me to influence other aspiring bikers, and change lives,” he says. When not on two-wheels, Zulu is a social facilitator for MGM Holdings, a company that works closely on economic transformation through the support of entrepreneurs and other professionals. Zulu said Youth Day symbolises freedom to him. “I celebrate the day every year keeping in mind what privileges we have as young people today. Freedom to express ourselves, dream and work in industries. Generations before us, we couldn’t.” Advising his fellow youth, Zulu encourages young people to stay creative in their approach to work and earn an income. “Find what you are good at and explore creative ways to solve problems out there and, in turn, generate money. “Surround yourself with sound mentors and people who have achieved what you aspire to. Choose what information you read and be grateful and humble. Keep in mind that there are people and organisations that will notice your efforts if you persevere and work hard to stand out in your industry - like my sponsors and mentors noticed me. “My hard work has provided me with a strong support structure today.”  siboniso.mngadi@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE