On Friday, he unveiled his list of changes for the residents who were left outraged at the death of 9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj three weeks ago in an attempted car theft incident that turned deadly. The community called for intervention in the face of heightened crime in the area in a public meeting with Cele, and he was given two weeks to respond to their concerns. “The station is short of 12 vehicles. By August this station will have 11 vehicles. You will also have increased visibility of officers on patrols, we will be working with our colleagues from Metro police to get more patrols. There should be no time you don’t see a (police) car,” said Cele. He added that there was a shortage of 16 officers at the Chatsworth police station. “That’s quite a big number, almost two shifts. I’m not promising a quick one, this is a national problem,” he said, adding that police would use their blue lights and would return to monitoring entry and exit points to the suburb. “We refuse to co-govern with criminals and we should not allow SA to be terrorised by criminals,” he said. He was informed by residents of alleged corrupt police officers stationed at Bayview police station, of unsolved hijacking and murder cases and the poor response from officers. Residents were urged to report in detail their issues with police and cases to a help desk erected at the youth centre. “I also want you to report criminals. If you see a TV for sale for R7000 in the shop, but someone is selling it to you for R700, don’t you think you are helping the market for stolen goods? We need to work together,” he said. Omi Nair, of the Crossmoor Crisis Committee, received the outline of the plan for the area. “This is the first time the community has been given this type of response and reverting to us in the time you said you would. We are very encouraged by your words and we know there is more work to be done. We are prepared to work with the police to fight crime,” she said. Pooh Govender, the chairperson of the Chatsworth Shield community group that was recently formed to tackle crime, said they had plans to unite every household across Chatsworth. “We are not a vigilante group and we are not police bashing. “Our vision is to have street committees and involve all organisations in the area. We must never allow ourselves to be subjected to the activities of these ruthless individuals,” said Govender. When questioned about the third suspect in the Sukhraj case and details of the ballistics test from the bullet that killed Sukhraj, Cele said police were still busy. “There are processes we have to follow. We can’t tell that story yet. We are still trying to find the suspect,” he said. THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY