DURBAN - A Morningside mother who allegedly killed her seven-year-old son by suffocating him at an uMhlanga guest house this week, is to undergo mental assessment. Megan Prins, 34, who is a project manager in the medical field, was remanded in custody at Westville Prison for the assessment to be conducted. Prins allegedly killed her son, Sloan, after booking into the guest house, where she allegedly gave him an overdose of adult medication before suffocating him. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed the incident. Also read: Mother arrested for suffocating 7-year-old son to death He said the mother had attempted to take her own life by slitting her wrists after her son’s death. The owner of the uMhlanga guest house, who did not want to be named, said her family had been left traumatised by the incident because they also lived on the property. “She (Prins) booked into the guest house on Tuesday night and called me about a late check-out the next morning,” the owner said. “A few hours later she called again and was crying when she asked me to come to her room.”She said Prins was crying uncontrollably when she tried to tell her (the owner) what had transpired. “I immediately called police and paramedics to the scene. I did not see anything further as they had taken full control of the situation. “All her booking credentials were thereafter handed to police. "My children are traumatised by the incident and we have to receive trauma counselling. "This was our home and we are now moving out of the property at the end of the month because of the incident,” said the owner. An uMhlanga police source who cannot be named said they were baffled why the woman had killed her child. “She was a single mother, she had a good job and was financially in excellent standing. Nobody knows at this point He said it was believed that the child’s father would take care of the infant’s funeral arrangements Prins is expected to appear in court later this month.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE