DURBAN - APARTHEID gave many black people an unwarranted inferiority complex. Now, 42 years after the Soweto Uprising, it’s high time we reached for the stars, says an upcoming astronomy lecturer Mthokozisi Mdlalose. The 27-year-old Pietermaritzburg stargazer was this year’s summa cum laude (“with highest honour”) Honours Degree graduate at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in the Bachelor of Science, A applied mathematics field. With Mdlalose having topped his class, he’s now determined to see other young people of colour making their mark in the scientific field and, ultimately, assuming leadership roles that were in the past dominated by white professionals and scientists. “I want my brothers and sisters to reach for their dreams and determine their own futures. Let nothing hold you back,” he said. Mdlalose is now furthering his studies towards gaining a PhD with a view of becoming a lecturer. He also runs debates for the Afrikan Emancipation Student Movement (Afri-ESM), a black consciousness movement for young black South Africans, based at the university’s Westville campus. “It’s about our psychology which impacts our abilities. People who were oppressed during apartheid still carry that element of being inferior, knowingly or unknowingly. “This is about empowering young people not to see themselves as useless but as people who can become powerful,” he said. But, Mdlalose added, success is not a magical snap of the fingers. From an impoverished family, Mdlalose always had a knack for science but laziness often got the better of him. In Grade 4, a young Mdlalose yearned to see a solar eclipse but didn’t have the required glasses needed to protect his eyes. “I found an empty chips packet and made the ‘lens’ to view the eclipse,” he said. A boy with his head in the stars, Mdlalose always loved science but failed his first major test in Grade 10. “That’s when I realised that I needed to discipline myself, and sit down with my books and study. “Success is about hard work,” he said. Years after his wake-up call, Mdlalose scooped the 2016 UKZN Talent Equity and Excellence Scholarship Award, and later attended programmes in America and Canada. He is currently studying towards his Master’s degree PhD, conducting further research further into the galaxy. Readying himself for the next black consciousness debate, Mdlalose said that apart from the tragic memories that are associated with Youth Day, the sacrifices made by those protesting school children and how their actions ultimately contributed to freedom in South Africa provided an opportunity to reflect on what went wrong in the past, and what can still be done to correct that. “And that’s what we as youth have been doing through the #FeesMustFall campaign,” said Mdlalose. “It’s time we build a new Africa. We have the potential. “Look at what China and Japan are creating. We can do that here, we have the technology. We just have to pull the focus away from politics,” he said.” NOTE: The Soweto Uprising was a series of demonstrations and protests led by black schoolchildren in South Africa that began on the morning of June 16, 1976. Students from Soweto schools began to protest in the streets of the township in response to the introduction of Afrikaans as the medium of instruction in black schools. It is estimated that 20000 pupils took part in the protests. They were met with fierce police brutality. The number of protesters killed is usually given as 176, but estimates of several hundred have been made.
In remembrance of these events, June 16 is now a public holiday in South Africa, named Youth Day. SUNDAY TRIBUNE