DURBAN - SEVERAL disgruntled staff members at the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) are challenging the appointment of the watchdog’s deputy director, Theresa Botha, claiming she is unsuitable for the post. The employees said the minimum requirement for the job was a diploma, which Botha does not have. She was appointed late last year and is reportedly taking home an annual salary of R612222. When contacted, Botha confirmed that she does not have any tertiary qualifications, and referred further queries to Ipid’s spokesperson, Moses Dlamini. He rejected claims that processes were flouted when Botha was appointed. “The Ipid appointed an independent external person to investigate grievances. The outcome is pending the finalisation of the grievance process. The Ipid awaits that outcome,” he said. On Botha’s qualifications, Dlamini said: “She qualifies for the job she was appointed to.” The Sunday Tribune has seen a complaint that one employee lodged with the directorate after Botha’s appointment. “It is unfair labour practice that people who qualify for the existing vacant post are now disadvantaged because of someone who does not even qualify for the post and without following due processes,” reads the complaint. Ipid staff said the position of deputy director was crucial for its well-being and for it to play its watchdog role effectively. The appointment of unqualified people to senior positions was one of the factors which rendered Ipid toothless, said another employee, who has been working for the inspectorate for 10 years. Another Ipid employee who had applied for the job said: “It’s obvious that the appointment of Ms Botha was irregular, and it needs to be reversed and a fair process of contesting this original existing post given to people who qualify.” Other cases that have come under the public spotlight include that of former Tshwane chief of staff, Marietha Aucamp, and former SABC chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Aucamp resigned after questions were raised about her qualifications. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela found in 2014 that Motsoeneng had lied about his matric qualification. He is contesting his dismissal at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration in Johannesburg. Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele this week instructed the head of Ipid, Robert McBride, to lift the suspension of principal investigator Cedrick Nkabinde, who wrote a letter to Cele in April accusing McBride of unlawful and unethical conduct. He was suspended for allegedly leaking information to the media and people, compromising investigations conducted by Ipid, and bringing its name, its executive director and other senior managers into disrepute. SUNDAY TRIBUNE