Durban - KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Willies Mchunu has lashed out at the racist comments that have dominated headlines in recent days urging the country to continue to build a non-racial society while warning those who make racist statements that they face "harsh" consequences. Mchunu said the KZN provincial executive council noted with deep concern the recent instances of "racialised political rhetoric" as well as racist and insulting utterances in text messages and on social media. Without mentioning anyone by name, Mchunu, in a statement said: "This kind of conduct is unacceptable and must not be tolerated irrespective of who is the target. The track record of the Provincial Government has been pro-active, consistent and uncompromising in defending the values in our Constitution". In recent days, various organisations reported EFF leader, Julius Malema to the SA Human Rights Commission over his comments that the majority of Indians were racist. Speaking at an EFF Youth Day commemorations in Klerksdorp in the North West Province at the weekend, Malema said: “(The) majority of Indians hate Africans, (the) majority of Indians are racist, and we must never be scared to say that they are racist. I’m not saying all Indians, I’m saying the majority of them”. Racism has also been thrust in the spotlight this week after Alochna Moodley, from Midrand in Johannesburg was caught on a Kulula flight using the K-word to describe the captain of the flight as well as two black passengers in a text message to a companion. Mchunu said the provincial government had thrown its weight behind the prosecution of errant individuals in a number of prominent cases and the government’s interventions have included the establishment of a Provincial Council on Social Cohesion whose first sitting will be within the next four weeks. "We caution anyone who risks undermining our hard-won freedoms that they face harsh sanction by both society and our legal system," Mchunu said. "Having regard to our deeply wounding and divided past, it is hard work building a non-racial society in which everyone’s dignity is protected. None of us must pause in this mission. We call on all South Africans irrespective of our diverse origins to respect each other and that sacrosanct edict of our liberation struggle, the Freedom Charter which triumphantly declared that South Africa belongs to all who live in it," he said. Daily News 