DURBAN - Security has been beefed up as an eerie silence hung over neighbouring Pietermaritzburg retirement homes yesterday. But the ring of steel is cold comfort for the families of the three elderly people who were killed at the homes by an alleged serial killer recently. Kershwin Goldstone, 22, who appeared in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court, admitted to killing Patricia O’Connor, 92, Roland Heathcote and Patricia Elizabeth Tugwell, both 89. O’Connor was found strangled at the Kenwyn Retirement Home on July 11. The wheelchair-bound Heathcote was bludgeoned to death at the Jacaranda Lodge on July 21, and 10 days later, Tugwell, another Jacaranda resident, was found stabbed to death. Goldstone, a former Alexandra High pupil, scaled the security walls at the homes on each occasion to gain entry. However, Goldstone was caught in the act when he attempted to climb into the Kenwyn Retirement Home on Wednesday and arrested. He made a full confession to magistrate Vincent Mncanyana and withdrew his application for bail. His next court appearance will be on August 20. But Goldstone’s family, who described him as someone who wouldn’t hurt a fly, believe he might have been coerced into confessing. His brother Tyrell said: “I am shocked to hear about these charges. I think he was threatened and so made the confession. We heard there was another suspect. “He doesn’t work. “We were struggling for money and maybe this came to his head.” Goldstone hasn’t spoken to his family since his arrest and two weeks ago apparently disappeared from his Pietermaritzburg home, where he lived with his single mother and siblings, including three sisters. That was before the killing spree. On Thursday Tyrell and his mother tried to talk to Goldstone in a police holding cell, but he had refused to engage in conversation. “This is not like him. I’m sure he wouldn’t do something like this. He’s a lovely boy,” Tyrell said. The retirement homes on Pietermaritz Street, a quiet area on the outskirts of the CBD, are aged buildings but have well-manicured green lawns. Jacaranda Lodge is decorated with cosy garden furniture, while Kenwyn home has a vintage bench at the gate on which residents can watch the world go by. Managers for both establishments confirmed that at the start of the killing spree they had already tightened security. The already high gates at Kenwyn Retirement Home were now covered with steel ring fences. “We’ve been on high alert. Everyone is panicked,” said a worker at Jacaranda, who asked not to be named. Brian Lodge, the manager at the home, said residents were settling down but security had been upgraded. All three families of the victims confirmed they would take no action against the lodges over security. O’Connor’s son, Timothy, said: “She was just mum. She was loving, nurturing, caring and she did what mothers do.” Of Goldstone’s arrest, he said: “This is a sign that the police system works. We appreciate their work. We hope that the legal system completes their obligations for some small sign that the country can function. It’s time we say this has gotten too much, and as a nation we look at this critically and turn things around.” Tugwell was laid to rest on Friday, shortly after Goldstone made his confession. Her daughter, Janine de Waal, described her as a beautiful, prim and proper person who loved newspapers. His niece, Elise van Dyk, said her uncle had loved making the close-knit family laugh. “Although he was wheelchair bound, he cooked his own food and took care of himself,” she said. He was bludgeoned to death while in his bed. Among the valuables taken was his late wife’s wedding ring. Van Dyk, who was like a daughter to him, said the family was still coming to terms with his death. Heathcote, a printer, was known for printing the English version of the Qu’ran - the holy book of Islam. He will be laid to rest at a family grave in the Eastern Cape where he was born. SUNDAY TRIBUNE