RAPE victims are expected to continue attending lectures at Rhodes University even though it’s common for the perpetrators to be sitting daily alongside them in class, said Khanyisile Mlaba, 23. Mlaba, an ex-Rhodes student, was a friend and mentor to Rhodes student Khensani Maseko, who committed suicide, last week, after allegedly being raped by her boyfriend in May. She believes the death of Khensani has given credence to students’ long standing belief that the university had an “ongoing rape culture.” Rhodes spokesperson Veliswa Mhlope denied the allegation and said the institution was prompt and thorough when dealing rape allegations. Maseko committed suicide at her Johannesburg home after she was allegedly raped at a residence on campus. On instagram, Khensani posted a picture of the day she was born and the day she decided to take her life (24.07. 1995 - 03.08.2018) with the caption: “No one deserves to be raped.” Khensani did not report the rape incident to police but, according to a statement released by the university, she reported the incident to them on July 30. An extract from the university’s statement read: “The university immediately made contact with her family and the family travelled the next day from Johannesburg to Grahamstown for a meeting, where they elected to take Khensani home for a while. “Khensani was due to return to the university for a meeting with the support and investigation team today (August 6). The university, working with the police and the National Prosecuting Authority, is pushing for an inquest into Khensani’s death.” In response, Mlaba said it took Khensani’s death for the university’s management to finally realise that rape culture is a massive issue on campus. She was referring to mass student action that had erupted in the wake of the #RUReferenceList that was circulated on social media in 2016. The list named and shamed alleged perpetrators of rape and started the process of pressuring the university into doing more to curb the rape culture at the institution. The #RUReferenceList later turned into protest action in April 2016 when students took to the streets and demonstrated outside the university. Claims have since emerged that students who participated in demonstrations related to the #RUReferenceList and #FeesMustFall movements were later excluded from the academic system while the alleged rapists continued to roam through the halls of the university. “The university did not suspend any of the alleged perpetrators but management seemed extremely agitated by the protest action and apart from suspending student activists victims of rape got the same treatment,” said Mlaba. Tightening security and alerting students about campus resources were the only measures the university implemented in response to the #RUReferenceList furore. A Rhodes student, who asked not to be named, said that rape victims have grown reluctant to raise the alarm because their complaints often fall on deaf ears. “Another student was raped recently and when she reported the incident to management, she was assured it would be investigated but the alleged rapist is still attending classes,” said the source. Studies suggest only 8.2% of women report sexual assault to the police. According Stats SA, there were many reasons why victims do not report sexual crimes but the common response was: “police would do nothing”. Another Rhodes student agreed it was pointless for rape victims to approach the authorities for assistance. “Three years after #RuReferenceList, we still feel unsafe. Earlier this year a student was raped in one of the residences and all the university did was release a statement saying ‘investigations are being conducted’. That was the last time we heard anything on the matter.” Commission of Gender Equality spokesperson Javu Baloyi said the issue of a rape culture at Rhodes University is not new and they have taken note of the increasing rape reports at the institution. SUNDAY TRIBUNE