DURBAN - The father of the man accused of setting an employee alight claimed his son had pulled a prank and had not intended to cause any harm. However, the victim, Zinhle Mchunu, said that if Dustin Govender had been just “playing around” - as his father, Don, suggested - why was she the only one hurt? Dustin Govender, 28, appeared briefly in the Durban Magistrate’s Court this week, charged with attempted murder. After magistrate Mohamed Motala adjourned the matter to next month for a trial date, Govender was let out on R7 000 bail. Govender and Mchunu, 31, both worked at Don Govender’s vehicle service workshop in West Street, Durban. On May 21, while Mchunu was in the workshop preparing to clean a bakkie, Govender allegedly used a gas lighter to set her wig on fire. He apparently laughed and told her that her hair was on fire. Minutes later, he then allegedly poured petrol at her feet and lit it. Don Govender said outside the court his son had not intentionally poured petrol on Mchunu’s feet - the two had been friends and had played around at work. “He is hurting inside, but I’ve told him to stay strong as this shall pass. It is not for me to take sides. God is the judge,” he said. Govender said Mchunu was a good woman and he treated her as if she were a family member. He said he had not considered replacing her in her absence - she was still being paid and he expected her back soon. “I wish her a speedy recovery... accidents do happen at work,” he said. However, Mchunu said Don Govender had not bothered to find out how she was. “He hasn’t called to even ask about my injuries. I am not willing to go back to work for them. I don’t bear a grudge against him. He did not send Dustin to burn me, but Dustin needs to face the consequences for the pain and suffering he caused me,” she said. Dustin Govender had allegedly accused Mchunu’s family of trying to extort money from him, through Cosatu. However, Cosatu provincial secretary Edwin Mkhize denied the accusation and alleged that Govender had shown no remorse. He added: “We only asked if he planned to help with medical expenses.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE