Every time top cop Captain Lorraine Khuzwayo walks out the door of her Umbilo home in Durban, she gives her 17-year-old daughter the grim reminder that she might never return home. Khuzwayo, a metro police woman, said she gives her daughter a reality check because she wants her to be able to fend for herself if she ever died in the line of duty. Khuzwayo works in the elite multi-operational response team (Mort), a unit comprising various task teams with officers who respond rapidly to special crimes and protests. In tense circumstances, officers from the Mort can shut down the city within minutes. Mort staged a glittering ceremony last week, to honour the bravery and excellence of some of its members, and Khuzwayo was among them. Khuzwayo is part of the crowd management task team, and is usually in the thick of things when public service delivery protests erupt. “We get stoned and we get shot at with live rounds but we have to go back for more. We are here to serve and protect,” she said. Khuzwayo said: “There is usually one bad apple that paints us all in a bad light. But people need to get to know us first before judging us.” She and the rest of the Mort team were in a jovial mood at the ceremony and cheered when their colleagues were called to the podium to receive their awards. Captain Thavenderan ‘TG’ Govender, a member of Mort’s dog unit, received several awards for his efforts on the team. In February, Govender was able to thwart an SAPS officer who allegedly attempted to commit an armed robbery, using a state-issued firearm. Govender then called in the Independent Investigative Directorate (Ipid) officers to effect the arrest. “We don’t take corruption lightly,” Govender said. Govender’s team deals with priority crimes and has come under criminals’ fire on several occasions. After his eventful days at work Govender goes home each night to help his six-year-old son with homework. “We are not ordinary men. I can’t tell my wife what I’ve been through that day because it’s too much for her to handle. But my work doesn’t stop me from being a loving husband and father,” he said. Among the many Mort members who received plaudits at the event, some working undercover, Superintendent Ally Mohamed, who watches over their rapid response team, and Captain Nhlakanipho Ngema were also honoured. The eagled-eyed Ngema has been at the centre of several drug busts in Durban. Captain Jesse Govender, who heads the new unit that is tasked with combating illegal business invasions at construction sites, received the most applause when he was accepting his award for 33 years of service. “Mort is the first of its kind in Durban, and there are plans to expand this unit,” said metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parbhoo Sewpersad. SUNDAY TRIBUNE