DURBAN - THE family of jazz musician Dr Nhlanhla Brian Thusi announced his death on Wednesday morning. Thusi, the husband of KwaZulu-Natal’s Social Development MEC Weziwe MEC died on Tuesday night at the St Augustine’s Hospital in Durban due to kidney failure after experiencing complications during a routine dialysis. Thusi, 66, was a revered musician, with several accolades that went beyond his music, including being bestowed with the eThekwini Mayor’s Award for being a community builder in 2001, being a winner of the National Youth Developer Award of the year in 2003 and the winner of the Impact to the community Arts (Fools Award) Durban in 2005. In 2014, the Umlazi Arts Organization bestowed upon him a lifetime achievement award, family spokesperson Vukani Mbhele said in a statement. On social media, tributes poured in.     Your contribution in the music industry changed the lives of many young and old musicians back from the streets of uMlazi and you also played your part in the Field Band Foundation. .and other organisations as well. Lala ngoxolo Bab' Brian Thusi.🎶🎵🎺 pic.twitter.com/GZwNiyF6Kf — TheReaLMaMcHuNu (@MendyMchunu) 
  August 1, 2018      A legend has fallen yet again n its very sad,i am da trumpetist/musician i am today coz of da seed dis GREAT MAN planted in my life n many others. RIP Dr. Brian"bhuti Brian" Thusi pic.twitter.com/AEHZtN65MI — Deben (@Deben10280026) 
  August 1, 2018      So sad to hear that Brian Thusi passed away. Rest In Peace Brian Thusi. My condolences to the entire family and friends. — Gavin Minter (@gavinminter) 
  August 1, 2018       After a wonderful performance at #ukhozisouljazzexperience Rest in peace Dr Brian Thusi pic.twitter.com/SGJcz13n9K  — fika selepe (@fikstar) 
  August 1, 2018      I'm saddened by the news of untimely passing on of Dr Brian Thusi (Husband to MEC Weziwe Thusi). Sincere and heartfelt condolences to his family and friends.… https://t.co/mclHUop8Pn — Sizwe W. Mchunu (@SizweMchunu) 
  August 1, 2018  Mbhele said Thusi was also awarded a lifetime achievement award as a trumpeter by the Backing Vocalists and Session Musicians Awards (BVSM) in 2015, while he also founded a music centre for the historically disadvantaged youth of Durban in 1986 and was chosen to compose music and conduct the Haringey Youth Orchestra in North London 2000 and 2001, and the Oslo Youth Wind Ensemble in Norway, 2002. The family said he started playing brass instruments at the age of 10 after receiving lessons from his father and was formally introduced to jazz at Ohlange High School, by his principal. “He identified jazz talent in him. He played trumpet for the school jazz group. He played trumpet, flugel horn, trombone, harmonica and sings efficiently,” said Mbhele. In his lifetime, he has performed all over the world with the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra, Namibia’s National Symphony Orchestra, Haringey Youth Orchestra (London) and North West Chamber Orchestra. He also performed and recorded music with industry greats including Mbongeni Ngema, Malcolm Darius Brubeck, Victor Ntoni, Lulu Gontsana, Kenny Baron, Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Caiphus Semenya, Hugh Masekela, Sipho Gumede and many others. “As a family, we find it hard to accept that he is gone. He was a loving husband, father, grandfather and community builder. He was very passionate about developing young talent and loved his craft, as he spent most of his time perfecting his talents. He will be sorely missed for his carefree attitude, always cracking jokes. He loved people, always socialising easily with anyone, no matter what social status they occupied,” said Mbhele, on behalf of the family. He is also survived by his children Mongezi, Songezi and Bahla, along with two siblings, three children and wife, Weziwe.