DURBAN - Kwaito musician Lvovo and some of his industry pals, gathered at the Chesterville Taxi Rank to show appreciation to people in the taxi industry for their contribution to the music scene. They dubbed the day '#TaxiIndustryAppreciationDay' and handed out meat and free CDs to taxi drivers. The kwaito star said they were grateful to taxi drivers for playing their music and said they were often the first people to play their music, before the media picked it up. Lvovo, whose real name is Thokozani Ndlovu, was flagged by Dogg DBN, Zulu Boy, DJ Bongz, Naima K, Danger, DJ Muntu, Mdu Ngcobo and eYadini owner Jabulani "Mjay" Zama. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Since 2006 taxi drivers have been playing our music, they were the first people to believe in our craft and therefore today we want to say thank you because no one has ever said thank you to them,” said Lvovo. Lvovo added that he does not own minibus taxis but does have friends who are taxi drivers and owners. “After 10 years in the music industry I am still standing because of the taxi industry’s love and support," he said. South Beach Association taxi driver Sanele Dlamini said he was very fond of Lvovo as he rememebers him from the time when he was still a student at the Durban University of Technology many years ago. “We are very proud of Lvovo and how far he has gone in the industry. We remember from when he was still a university student and we are so glad that he has not forgotten us as the people who listen to and play his music the most,” said Dlamini. Earlier this week the kwaito star made available a R30 000 reward for his stolen Macbook laptop which contained five of his new unreleased songs. The laptop was stolen when criminals broke a window and allegedly removed the laptop and other items, he revealed on a post on Facebook. Police confirmed they were investigating a case of theft. SUNDAY TRIBUNE