The Hawks have backtracked on the appointment of a rogue cop, who was expected to take up a position as overall commander of serious organised crime in Durban this week. Spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said an investigation was under way into why disciplinary action was not taken against the cop when he was convicted, and denied his appointment. Several sources within the unit confirmed Colonel Nkosinathi Nomvalo was expected to take up office on Monday, despite being convicted for negligent use of his firearm. Nomvalo was sentenced to one year in prison, suspended for five years, or a R10000 fine, by the Amanzimtoti Magistrate’s Court after losing his firearm while on duty in 2015. He paid the fine. He was found guilty under the Firearm and Ammunition Act and was sentenced in July last year. In a statement issued on Monday, Mulaudzi said the national head of the Hawks, Lieutenant-General Godfrey Lebeya, had directed a thorough investigation into the matter as far back as June 26. “The officer was appointed in 2015 and the post was withheld pending the outcome of his criminal case. “Eventually the officer was found guilty by a court of law. “Unfortunately no departmental action was taken against the member,” said Mulaudzi. Mulaudzi said Lebeya had already considered the officer’s placement in KwaZulu-Natal. “He has already appointed a colonel in July to act in the position concerned. “Internal disciplinary processes are under way against those who failed to deal with the officer’s alleged misconduct. Only Lieutenant-General Lebeya will make a final decision regarding the outcome of the inquiry and will act with integrity in rendering the Hawks of a high standard,” said Mulaudzi. However, members at the Durban office were baffled by Mulaudzi’s claim that a colonel was appointed. “The appointment was for an acting head of narcotics. “Nobody has been appointed in the position that Nomvalo was expected to resume,” said a member who asked not to be named. Nomvalo said he was bound by SAPS protocols and could not comment.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE