Durban - A Durban security company boss, who made allegations about police working in cahoots with a car theft syndicate, claims he has been harassed on numerous occasions by police officers and is now living in fear. The businessman, who asked not to be named, claimed that stolen vehicles were left to “cool off” in the parking lot of a building his company was guarding in Durban’s South Beach area. In spite of reporting the suspected stolen vehicles on several occasions, police failed to act decisively. Instead, police officers have intimidated him at different times because he had “exposed their friends”, claimed the man. He has since laid charges against the offending police officers and his attorney, Roy Singh, said he was working on bringing a high court application against the SAPS. “My client has lost faith in the police, hence we are pursuing a high court application against the minister of police and the policemen directly involved, to prevent them from further harassing him,” said Singh. In an affidavit, the man recounted one of the incidents of alleged police intimidation. He had just parked in front of the Kwik Spar at South Beach when another vehicle parked alongside him. One of the occupants from the other vehicle pointed a gun at him. “The gunman said, 'you dog, open the window, I want to talk to you'. I drove off because I realised the people in the car wanted to harm me. There were six occupants in the other vehicle and some of them had guns. "They gave chase and only backed off when I stopped at the (Point police station),” he said. The businessman said one of the men in the car was a police officer and he recognised three of the other occupants to be involved with a car theft syndicate. “In recent months, my guys (guards) took note of suspected stolen vehicles in the parking bays at the building we’re working at. We did our duty by reporting our suspicions to the police. “Sometimes police would do a check and report back that everything was fine while we believed it was not. The same vehicles would remain at the building until thieves moved them elsewhere after stripping parts from the cars, including tracking devices,” he claimed. The man claimed that the building was being used by the thieves as a “cool-off zone”. SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed police were investigating a case of pointing a firearm. “The acting station commander at the Point police station as well as the cluster commander are overseeing the investigation that has been assigned to a senior detective. “They are concerned about being unable to meet the complainant, collect evidence he might have in his possession and interview him. "They have made repeated requests to the complainant that he meet with the investigation team but he has not done so,” said Zwane. But the businessman denied Zwane’s claims. He said he had met with the investigating officers, with his attorney on Monday, and provided all the necessary information. Instead, he said he still awaited an update from police. And, while police delayed with their investigations, more suspected stolen vehicles were being parked at the building in question. SUNDAY TRIBUNE