DURBAN - THE alleged Thornwood killer may have made numerous death threats towards his mother and girlfriend, but no one spoke of it, and this needs to be changed, said KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mxolisi Kaunda. Kaunda said the gruesome family murders and apparent suicide that occurred in Thornwood, Marianhill, over the weekend were unfortunate, and “possibly preventable.” On Sunday, police found four decomposing bodies at a family home in Thornwood. The bodies of a three-month-old boy, his mother and grandmother had stab wounds. In a separate room, the body of a man, believed to be the apparent killer, was found hanging. The only person found alive at the scene was a two-year-old girl. “Preliminary reports indicate that the victims might have been dead for approximately a week. They were at an advanced stage of decomposition,” said Kaunda. Kaunda said: “The killer, believed to be the son of the deceased elderly woman, was also found dead after an apparent suicide. He allegedly hanged himself.” Marianhill police have since opened three cases of murder and an inquest docket, but Kaunda believed the community should have notified authorities earlier of the trouble brewing inside the doomed household. Said Kaunda: “As a community, we have a responsibility to be our neighbour’s keeper. Surely, someone must have seen or heard something prior to the terrible actions by this clearly troubled young man.” He urged members of the public to be alert at all times, especially when threats are made. “I encourage all family members to be vigilant. Please report any threat or suspicious behaviour from family members especially those who make death threats. It is our collective responsibility to ensure that we protect and advance the interest of the most vulnerable members of our society, namely, women and children,” he said. The toddler, after being treated by paramedics, is still in a critical condition in hospital, according to the MEC. Meanwhile, eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede, has pledged that the City would foot the bill for the victims' funerals. SUNDAY TRIBUNE