DURBAN - The Durban promenade was lit up with pops of bright colours as the Festival of Chariots procession took over the beachfront on Friday. The annual festival was being celebrated the for the 30th consecutive year on the beachfront, hosted by the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON). Three colourful chariots towered over hundreds of devotees, near Addington beach where the festival took-off. WATCH: ISKCON deities, that were to be placed upon the chariots, were brought to the venue in luxury vehicles.   The ISKCON deities have arrived in luxury vehicles and are being loaded onto each chariot #FestivalOfChariots @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/IBO400BSYl  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) March 30, 2018    There are 3 chariots heading to the old Durban Drive Inn #FestivalOfChariots @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/US0X99czTB  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) March 30, 2018  Hundreds of devotees joined the procession which was headed to the old Drive Inn where the four-day festival would get underway. Chanting ‘Hare Krishna Hare Rama,’ a Hindi praise song, devotees erupted in vibrant song and dance along the way, with hundreds helping pull the chariots.   @SundayTribuneSA #FestivalOfChariots pic.twitter.com/XzQBe00qhP  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) March 30, 2018  Some devotees had been attending the festival for several years, and chose to display their devotion in various ways.   Padyadali Devi Dasi, 62, has been sweeping the roads before the #FestivalOfChariots procession for over 25 years. “Spiritually is about service” she said @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/RR3LVxYcjW  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) March 30, 2018      Radha Bakthi Devi Dasi, 80, is first in line to pull the chariot and has been doing so for 15 years. Her son, Gopal, has promised to help her all the way through this year as she will not take a shuttle for the #FestivalOfChariots @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/t34lKaTu9j  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) March 30, 2018      After an almost three hour parade, the #FestivalOfChariots has come to end. the ISCKON festival continues until Monday at the old Durban drive inn @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/0EuOBVWxEg  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) March 30, 2018   Over 250 000 people are expected to converge at the festival grounds until Monday, when an evening parade will officially conclude the festival. “We have had previous festivals before that, but it has been 30 years since we began hosting the procession on the Durban beachfront and we have tonnes of entertainment planned, and paired with great hospitality,” said Krsangi Radhe Dasi, public relations officer for ISKCON Durban. At the grounds, Swamis (spiritual teachers) from across the world are expected to present workshops, plays and yoga sessions among various activities relating to spiritual development, and ISKCON is set to provide vegetarian meals for guests. “The walk and yoga session by a Swami from Canada is a new addition to the festival, as is the ‘Cooking with Annalakshmi’ segment, where we provide the Durban comedian surprise ingredients and she has to whip up something delicious,” Dasi said. On Sunday, at 4pm the main entertainment hall is expected to be cleared to make way for the Dandiya dance, where guests can bring Dandiya’s (decorated dancing sticks) to join in the popular Indian dance celebration. SUNDAY TRIBUNE