The 2016/2017 Victims of Crime Survey released by Statistics South Africa late last year revealed that more than 21000 women across the country had become victims of hijacking, while almost 32000 fell victim to sexual assault. Last month, the dismembered and decapitated body of a woman was discovered in a Durban park. Five pregnant women laid sexual assault charges against a 45-year-old counsellor at a clinic in Cato Manor last week. Singh, a devoted gun enthusiast, believes women need to learn to defend themselves from criminals so that they don’t become victims. Whether it’s a Glock handgun with customised pink embellishments or skillfully handling a rugged AK-47 assault rifle, Singh says women who own guns should not be frowned upon. Just as education empowers women, the 42-year-old mother-of-three claims women with guns who act responsibly can ensure their family’s safety. Singh is known as Durban’s “Glock Gal” because she is among the few women licensed to deal in weapons. But she doesn’t surround herself with high-powered weapons only to cut a menacing figure; she is also a dedicated crime-fighter. Regular duty with the tactical shooting team, a group of Good Samaritans from around Durban who try to help crime victims, is her contribution to a safer society. “Lives are lost through crime every day. I am at peace knowing I’m helping by teaching women self-defence methods that could save their families,” she said. As a businesswoman in the gun trade, her clients include prominent security companies. The death of her husband in 2005 and her fight with illnesses (throat cancer and thyroid trouble) have taken a toll on her. “I went into remission in 2012. It’s been a difficult path. When I started visiting shooting ranges in 2013, I realised it was where I belonged, even though not everyone agreed with me.” After enduring the laborious process of acquiring various licences in 2014, Singh got a position in sales with a large gun dealing company based on her technical expertise. “Gone are the days when women are stuck in kitchens, or  handling a gun was not for them. We need to have faith in women who want to protect themselves and their families.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. SUNDAY TRIBUNE