Glow TV offers Eastern content sourced from around the world, including India and South Africa. Many soapies are dubbed into English with titles such as This is Love and Critical Moments. MultiChoice announced last month that Glow would no longer be on its list of channels by the end of this month as its contract had ended. In a statement, MultiChoice suggested they could instead watch Zee channels, owned by the Essel Group in India. Telemundo, an international channel, and eBella, a South African channel, would also be available. Glow owner Nazeer Noormohamed, chief of the Nismedia Group, under which several Gauteng-based media outlets fall, has taken the matter to court. After Noormohamed launched an urgent application against DStv in the Johannesburg High Court, the matter was referred for arbitration as per an agreement in the contract between the two. Until the legal process was finalised, DStv is apparently compelled to keep Glow on its platform, according to Noormohamed’s attorney. Glow was launched in 2013 by Kagiso Media and taken over by Noormohamed’s company in 2016. Noormohamed said: “We always promote local content and provide platforms for South Africans to showcase their talents. Despite  this, and having millions of viewers, we have not been given a reason as to why our contract has not been renewed.” Glow TV, which also airs on other platforms, has more than 1.5million viewers. Fans were fuming on social media, and in various posts on Facebook suggested a boycott, unsubscribing from the platform. Commenting on a public post, Thiru Pather said: “Seems like Zee World has something to gain. We won’t settle for second best.” Raeesa Dawood posted: “DStv is seriously jeopardising their Indian [subscribers].” The channel was also loved by audiences outside the Indian cultural group. Mfingo MaBhanekazi Nyembezi posted: “Just heard that Glow TV will stop airing on DStv after March 31. How then are we going to get our favourite Indian shows?” Despondent DStv responded and referred him to Zee and eBella channels. MultiChoice head of communications, Marietjie Groenewald, said there were no specific plans to replace Glow, and in the past five years DStv had spent more than R7billion on local content. “DStv offers many local channels and has been committed to investing in local content since its inception,” she said. Groenewald did not provide DStv viewer statistics, but Noormohamed claimed Glow’s viewership on DStv was far higher than other popular channels. Gauteng-based business expert Kimara Badal was despondent about the news but called on viewers to take action and “flood” the company with messages through its call centre. “If you are an upset, paying DStv viewer, you don’t have to sit back and do nothing. You can complain as you have a right to have your say. The power lies in the majority of the public’s voice.” A Proudly SA spokesperson would not comment as the brand was aligned with DStv.  karinda.jagmohan@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE Like the Sunday Tribune on Facebook