The Jes Foord Foundation has been rooted in the personal journey of Foord who was gang-raped in 2008. She was walking her dogs in the Shongweni area when she was attacked by four men. Her traumatic experience led to her being not just another rape victim, but a survivor who became a voice for others. “When I started the foundation I wanted to help rape victims. Never did I think I would reach so many of them. I’m always touched by seeing someone turn from being a victim to a survivor,” said Foord. She has been able to use the platform of her foundation to drive several successful projects. These include the Handbag Project, the Cinderella Project, establishing the Mariannhill Counselling Centre, The Young Men’s Mentorship Programme, Learners Awareness Impact Programme and the Actively Against initiative. She often gives motivational talks at schools were she raises awareness about sexual abuse against women and children. Over the past decade, Foord said her foundation had reached more than 370 000 people with its schools awareness programme across KZN. “We have also given almost 3000 hours of free trauma counselling to rape survivors and their families. "I am so proud of the foundation's achievements. We have remained focused on empowering rape survivors. Going forward we are going to work on making our programmes even better,” said Foord. She said her wish for the future of the foundation was simple. “My long-term goal is not to be needed. I’d like there to be no rape, and no need for the foundation someday.” Foord said her advice to victims of sexual abuse was to speak out. “If you've been sexually assaulted, you should please find someone you trust and start talking about it, or journalise the trauma. You need to start releasing your experience in order for you to move on to becoming a strong survivor.” To celebrate her milestone, the foundation will host a family fun day to thank the community, family and friends for all of their help and support during the first decade of JFF. The event is scheduled for March 25, at  Gateway’s WavePark and will include 
live entertainment, food stalls, gin bars, super slides and fun for children. SUNDAY TRIBUNE 