She explained that her grandmother had lived until the ripe old age of 97. As the candles burnt on her birthday cake at her home in Wentworth yesterday, Oldham spoke of how she remembered Neil Armstrong landing on the moon. “I remember when the Americans went around in a satellite and a chap whose name was Neil, Neil Armstrong, he was the first man on the moon.” She also remembered World War II. “I got married after that.” Now a great-grandmother twice and a mother of three, Oldham was born in Lusikisiki. “It was called Pondoland. My mother was a Pondo woman and she married a white man, my father. The whole family of Stoffels, my family, were in Lusikisiki.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Apart from her genes, she says she isn’t sure why she has attained such longevity. “I don’t know. I can’t tell. It’s because of the Lord that I am all right each day, whether it’s a cold day, a hot day or whether the wind is blowing.” Family and friends from the Wentworth Aid Action Group, a non-profit organisation that delivers her weekly supplies, turned out to help her celebrate. She was expecting a visit from other family members from Richmond today. According to Statistics SA, life expectancy at birth for women in the country last year was 66.7 years, while it was 61.2 years for men. In KwaZulu-Natal, women were expected to live to an average age of 63.5 years between 2016 and 2021, while it was 63.7 years from 2011 to 2016; 53.1 years from 2006 to 2011; and 48.4 years from 2001 to 2006. The province with the highest life expectancy at birth, for females, is the Western Cape - a position that it has held for all the listed periods. A famous South African woman who has been in the news this year and also has Pondoland roots is none other than Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. She died in April, aged 81. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY