When he was president, Mandela would stay at King’s House, the presidential residence which borders the park, where there used to be a gate between the properties. Gordon Michael, whose family have a combined 220 years of service at Blue Zoo restaurant at Mitchell Park, said they would see Mandela wandering along the paths of the tranquil gardens. Now retired from the restaurant where he worked for 46 years, Michael runs the tuckshop in the Mitchell Park Zoo and is in demand for historical talks which he gives to audiences from schools, communities and the corporate world. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The park would still be closed and sometimes we would be at the restaurant early to prepare for a function, when we would see him (Mandela) walking along the paths. “He was such a great man, he set the platform on which we should all be building,” said Michael. He said his sister, Ella Govender, had been Mandela’s controller householder at both De Tuynhuys in Cape Town and King’s House in Durban and frequently travelled with Mandela when he was president. Today bronze busts of Mandela and King Goodwill Zwelithini are scheduled to be unveiled at Mitchell Park with a Sivananda Peace Pillar - and the busts will be the first to be installed together in a public place anywhere. They are the initiative of local businessman Ishwar Ramlutchman, who said: “The monuments will serve as a symbol of reconciliation and tolerance and highlight the heritage of the pioneers, the courage and commitment of the freedom fighters, the wisdom, passion and determination of the visionaries for a non-racial and democratic South Africa. “This historic monument is to depict nation-building and our rich heritage.” Walking the Independent on Saturday along the paths that Mandela walked during his visits to Durban, Michael said he was looking forward to the unveiling - and that it was timeous in that this weekend is also the anniversary of the death of the great king of the Zulu nation, Shaka Zulu. “King Zwelithini officiated at the opening of Mitchell Park Zoo and the two busts are definitely a fitting tribute to our heritage,” he said. Independent On Saturday