DURBAN - The family of Durban businessman and convicted fraudster Kessie Nair who called President Cyril Ramaphosa the k-word in a social media video has asked the public to forgive him, claiming he was unwell. In statement issued by Nair’s brother Krishnan, the Nair family said they distanced themselves from the comments. Nair made a five minute long video clip, where he recorded himself saying Ramaphosa had failed the nation and needed to be charged for high treason. He said he was prepared to go to jail for his comments. In his video, Nair said people referring to themselves by race, are creating a divide in the community. He said those who described themselves by their race, were racist. A community activist in Chatsworth reportedly opened a case of crimen injuria against Nair on Wednesday. Nair's brother, Krishnan, said Kessie needed immediate medical care. “His health took a turn for the worst a few years ago. He suffers a serious chronic illness. The visuals he posted of himself shows he lacks the intelligence and understating of what he is saying. His incarceration for a long time has also played a role in his personality,” said the brother, Krishnan. “He is physically and mentally unwell. Kessie's statements are irrational and deserve to be condemned. We also urge the authorities to help ensure he gets the proper medical help,” said Krishnan, who urged South Africans to forgive his brother. Meanwhile, Logie Naidoo, a former deputy mayor in eThekwini and a member of the Social Cohesion Council of South Africa, said he condemned Nair’s statements. “His irresponsible behaviour and language is repugnant to the values of decency and decorum. Without deference to the implications of racial conflagration he bravely states that he is not concerned about the implications of his actions. He must face the full might of the law and undergo serious re-education,” said Naidoo. He said citizens of this nature had no place in the new South Africa. nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za