Durban - Making easy mobile payments across borders is the goal of Airopay, a Nigerian company which exhibited at the Durban Business Fair this week. Whether you are moving money from Lagos to London, Pretoria to Harare, this app promises to deliver. “The whole idea is to digitize Africa. We have developed a one-stop shop for all cross-border payments, all real-time transactions. If you are in the US and need to pay mom’s DStv account, you can do that. We are providing a system where you can pay for your loved ones, whether it’s for groceries or airtime,” said Airopay chief executive Charles Oyakhilome John. The Durban Business Fair saw business leaders from across the continent making connections and deals. John, said their new inexpensive mobile payment system would go live in Nigeria at the end of next month, with roll-outs planned in Kenya and Ghana towards the end of the year and South Africa at the beginning of 2019. Nigeria has a population of nearly 200 million people of which an estimated 60% are young people. John said there were 95 million internet users with 30 million smartphones in the country. “But 49% do not have a bank account and we want to change that as we have mobile banking and mobile money. While we are driving towards a cashless system and cashless economy, there still will be cash-out payment points,” he said, adding that there was still a reliance on cash in many African countries. “When it comes to cash out, we already have 20 000 people ready to sign up as agents for cash out points and we are looking to have a million across Nigeria, so the system will also provide employment. The agents will be paid through a commission on the transaction,” he said. Airopay was born in 2014, and the system has been developed and includes several layers of security. According to John, it will be as simple as downloading the app, signing up and moving cash from your normal debit card to the Airopay e-wallet. “Users will be able to fund, withdraw, transfer money and pay for goods and services easily with their mobile device. "We have come to the Durban Business Fair to network and find potential investors. We have everything ready and in place,” he said. The Durban Business Fair at the ICC and Durban Exhibition Centre is set to run until Monday September 24. eThekwini Municipality’s acting spokesperson, Mandla Nsele, said entrance to the fair was free and innovative products and services were on show. “Influential business people and prominent celebrities are here to share their expertise on business development and the opportunities for emerging businesses to tap into. There are also networking opportunities with established businesses, as well as creating linkages with various business sectors and potential buyers,” said Nsele. The Independent on Saturday