DURBAN - The family of a Durban businessman who was shot dead at an Engen garage in Rossburgh last month is now offering R300 000 for information which could lead to the arrest and conviction of the murderer. The reward has been significantly increased from the initial R50 000 reward raised by the family, as there has been no leads to a suspect since the shooting over a month ago. Kidesh Ramjettan was shot dead at the family’s Glaze Motors Engen garage in Rossburgh on August 22. CCTV footage shows the 37-year-old businessman leaning over a bakkie, talking to a customer, before an armed man walks directly to him and shoots him. The suspect, who is wearing a cap, produces a firearm, stands behind Ramjettan and fires three shots, killing him instantly. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “Police have told us that there have not been viable leads yet, and that is why the family has raised this money as a reward for information leading to the suspect’s arrest,” said Prethumb Bechan, Ramjettan’s cousin, and family spokesperson. While there has been no motive for the crime yet, Bechan believed the suspect had accomplices who were keeping watch over Ramjettan’s movements at the garage, and fled on foot following the murder. The shooting happened at 4pm, when the area was bustling with rush hour traffic. “How did they escape when there is bumper-to-bumper traffic at the time? They must have fled on foot,” he said. Ramjettan was the youngest of three siblings. His parents have been distraught in the wake of their son’s murder. “Kidesh was a bubbly and sociable person without any enemies. The family hopes that any information that can bring to light the reason for his senseless murder will provide some closure,” Bechan added. The family has since released photographs obtained from the garage’s CCTV camera. One photograph shows the suspect fleeing as Ramjettan lays on the ground. He had been shot twice in the head, and once on his body. Ramjettan’s son, two-year-old Kiaan has been waiting for his dad to come home, while Ramjettan’s wife, Lonica, has been braving the past month alone. Said Bechan: “Kiaan is looking for his dad, he knows what time his dad comes home from work, and still expects to see him.” Anyone with information can contact Warrant Officer Nagaser on 0837951295. SUNDAY TRIBUNE