Durban - Two opposing groups of ANC members are currently protesting outside the Pietermaritzburg Magistrates Court where seven men - accused of killing ANC activist Musawakhe "Qashana" Mchunu are expected to apply for bail. One of the accused is  Nkosinathi "TK" Gambu, an ANC councillor in Msunduzi.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A large crowd of about 300 people wearing ANC t-shirts and carrying placards which read: "Stop City Capture" are opposed to the accused being granted bail. "Stop political killings," read one of the placards by the protesters. Meanwhile, a small crowd of about 50 people also protested in favour of the accused. The crowd in support of the councillor wore t-shirts bearing his face with the words: "wenzeni uGambu (what has Gambu done wrong)".  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police had their hands full as the two group taunted hurled insults and  each other outside court. The bail hearing is expected to start after 11am. Those opposing bail believe Mchunu's murder was political as he had been one of the ANC activists who were critical of the the ANC leadership in the Moses Mabhida region which has since been disbanded. Security was also tight inside court where Mchunu's two wives were present.  Political leaders in attendance also include former Cosatu provincial secretary Zet Luzipo, MKMVA provincial chairperson Themba Mavundla and Richard Mkhungo of the South African National Civics Organisation.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He was shot dead on May 11 while arriving at his home in KwaPata, outside Pietermaritzburg. Later this afternoon KZN Premier will table the Moerane Commission report. The commission was tasked with investigating political killings in KZN. The Mercury