DURBAN - YET another local leader of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has been gunned down at his home. The ANC’s ward chairperson in KwaNdengezi, near Pinetown, was shot dead while returning home from a branch executive committee meeting on Monday. The ANC described Thulani Nxumalo’s death as “brutal and callous”. “He was gunned down while arriving home after the BEC meeting. Although the information regarding his murder remain sketchy, it appears that Cde Nxumalo’s attackers hid themselves around his home and shot him several time on his arrival,” said ANC spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu. The party has called on the police to investigate the killing and said Nxumalo would be remembered as a militant cadre. “He was known for the love of his community and always stood up against criminal elements that compromises human rights. Cde Nxumalo as a CPF member was hard at work to ensure Ward 12 was never turned into a nest of criminal activity,” said Simelane-Zulu. In March, an ANC voting district co-ordinator Nqobizwe Mkhize was shot dead in Mfume, on the south of Durban, on the morning of the IEC's voter registration day. Mkhize was killed at his home while in bed with his wife, who had been  allegedly told by the attackers to cover herself as they opened fire and shot him dead. In May, an ANC Hammersdale leader, Maqatha Mchunu, was killed at his home. In July, an ANC Youth League branch chairperson Usher Mkhize at the Coastal KZN TVET College was gunned down in uMlazi as the ANC provincial conference was taking place. A 29-year-old suspect handed himself over to police. The African National Congress (ANC) has expressed shock at the brutal killing of another leader Maqatha Mchunu at his home in Hammarsdale, in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. The ANC’s provincial secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli, said the party was shocked by the killing - which he described as a vicious attack. “We are severely pained by the continuous killing of community leaders in the province. We dip our banner in honour of this fallen cadre of our revolution and commit ourselves to pick up his spear and soldier on with the struggle for the betterment of our people lives which he waged until his last moments,” said Ntuli. Police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo confirmed police were investigating a murder docket. "I can confirm that Thulani Nxumalo (was) on foot in KwaNdengezi when we was attacked and shot dead by unknown suspects. He was a former chairperson SAPS KwaNdengezi CPF," he said. DAILY NEWS