DURBAN - THE student formation of the Economic Freedom Fighters clinched the SRC elections at the Mangosuthu University of Technology, the university announced on Tuesday. The EFF Students Command (EFFSC) secured eight of the 11 seats, yielding power from the ANC-aligned South African Students Congress (Sasco). The DA Students Organisation and the IFP-aligned South African Democratic Student Movement (Sadesmo) secured zero seats between them. MUT spokesperson Bheki Hlophe confirmed on Tuesday that the EFFSC had won the elections with 8 seats, to Sasco’s 3 seats. He said the new leadership would be inauguarated on October 5, while the eleven portfolio allocations would take place next Monday, October 1. At the Durban University of Technology, the EFFSC took all 8 seats to clinch electoral victory earlier this month. Bonginkosi Khanyile, an EFFSC member and Fees Must Fall activist, who last month pleaded guilty to public violence, told News24 they were over the moon over the electoral victories. "We are happy and over the moon at these results, it means we are eating away at the elephant one piece at a time," he said. Meanwhile, the EFF’s deputy president, Floyd Shivambu, took to Twitter to celebrate the outcomes.      Congratulations @EFFStudents in Mangosuthu University of Technology for the SRC Elections decisive victory. It’s a great inspiration. The future looks bright.EFFSC MUT - 8 Seats.SACO- 3SADESMO - 0. pic.twitter.com/XtlhWBcy7Y  — Floyd Shivambu (@FloydShivambu) 
  September 21, 2018       We put it to you that MUT is under a capable gallant students movement, the gigantic students movement, the glorious students movement, the mighty EFF Students Command. Woza 2019.EFFSC 8 seatsSASCO 3 SeatsSADESMO 0DASO 0NASMO 0#FlyingSquad#Uphephela#TheChosenOnes pic.twitter.com/XgOMKEYfuj  — Bonginkosi Khanyile (@Khanyile_BG) 
  September 21, 2018       Can the fighters in MUT confirm victory yes Mangosuthu University of Technology in KZN, EFF Is not confined to one province we are all over like holy spirit #EFFIsFixing #kubo. pic.twitter.com/R291vk9t8m  — EFF Soweto (@Effgroundforces) 
  September 21, 2018       DAILY NEWS