While the Department of Labour is adamant there will be no turning back on the national minimum wage, the newly formed South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has vowed to rebel against it. Saftu, which marched in cities including Durban on Wednesday, has slammed the bill for prescribing “slavery wages”. It was the first public demonstration of Saftu’s muscle and saw streets transformed into seas of red, reminiscent of days when Cosatu was at its peak. The bill provides the national minimum wage to be R20 for each ordinary hour worked, but provides for temporary exceptions for the first year: farm workers R18 an hour; domestic workers R15 an hour; and workers in the expanded public works
programme, R11 an hour. The minimum wage was approved by the cabinet in November, but after public hearings, the Portfolio Committee on Labour referred the bill back to the Department of Labour for inclusion of inputs of various stakeholders. The committee had consolidated all comments and suggestions received, verbal and written, and handed them to the parliamentary legal officer and state law advisers to redraft some of the changes agreed to during the deliberations of the committee, said department’s director-general, Thobile Lamati. Saftu general-secretary Zwelinzima Vavi said the federation would continue protesting until the minimum wage 
was revised to higher rates. “This is a direct insult to the poorest of the poor. In essence, the government is telling poor people to make ends meet with R3000 and less a month. If you are looking for an uncaring government, don’t look further than the ANC,” said Vavi. But Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said they welcomed the proposed minimum wages bill as a starting point in improving workers’ lives. Dennis George, general-secretary of the Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa) also rejected all forms of pushback against the bill. “It can never be legitimate to allow highly irresponsible grandstanding to undermine a lot of hard work put in by organised labour represented by Fedusa, Cosatu and Nactu and the social partners of business and government at Nedlac over a two-year period in negotiating a minimum floor of wages in order to lift millions of vulnerable South African workers out of abject poverty,” said George. He said that half of the country’s workforce will directly benefit when the bill is passed. SUNDAY TRIBUNE