Johannesburg businessman Katleho Nyawuza is on a mission to have his app, the Explore iKasi app, become the premier destination for all businesses operating in and serving the people who live in townships. From barber shops and hairdressers, shisa nyamas and chair hire services, decorating services and wedding planners to funeral services, eateries, private tutors and accommodation, Nyawuza wants his app to be the one-stop-shop for locals and tourists seeking services, entertainment and a township experience. How did the idea come about? “It was out of frustration,” said Nyawuza. “I was going to a function in Thokoza and by the time I got there, I realised I had forgotten to have a haircut and when I went to the only barber I knew, he was gone. This frustrated me as I did not know of any alternative. Later, I asked my friends if there was any app that could show me where to go and they said no. “That made me realise there was a need for such a thing, because there I was as a potential spender on a business in the township, but I didn’t know where to go spend this money,” said Nyawuza. The app uses geo-location technology to point the user to the closest listed businesses. For businesses to list on the app - which is still largely confined to greater Johannesburg - the owners or representatives have to fill out a quick application on the app. Once all the relevant information is listed, app users can find, browse and contact the business based on the information loaded from the application. In other words, Durban- or KZN-based businesses can list on the app immediately. Nyawuza’s app has been in the works since last May and was launched on the Android Play Store platform at the start of this month. More than 65 small businesses have listed. On the app, businesses get to advertise their operating hours, contact details, specials and, importantly, directions. “We are trying to bring township business to the level of other businesses. We want the app to raise awareness of the services offered in the townships. “But the app is not exclusive. If someone runs a business in the suburbs or is not black, we will not remove them from the platform,” he said. Nyawuza, 32, is a former engineer and project manager, but admits he is no longer a technical person. “I’ve always wanted to look at the bigger picture, to see things grow. I was the unhappiest engineer,” he said. “I only began to flourish when I got a job as a project manager.” The cousin of Orlando Pirates defender Ntsikelelo Nyawuza, he studied electrical engineering at the Vaal University of Technology. He later attended the Wits Business School, studying towards a “mini MBA” - a qualification in management advancement. He has a full-time job as a management specialist. His colleague, Portia Heshu, has a 30% stake in the business after she injected part of the R180000 in capital need to kick-start the business. “When Portia said she was interested in the business, I told her not to ask for dividends in the first two years and she said no, let’s make that five years,” he said, describing her as a supportive silent partner in the business. Nyawuza said Durban townships should list their businesses on the app as he personally never knew where to go when he visited the city. “Every time I’m in Durban, I stay at that hotel at Suncoast, I go to the beach and the regular spots there. I’ve never had a Durban township experience and there’s an opportunity for those in uMlazi, KwaMashu and Inanda to showcase their businesses on the app,” he said. The Explore iKasi app is free for users and business listings, with Nyawuza saying his R180 000 injection into the business will be recouped by selling advertising space on the app. Asked why the app was fee-free, he said he had joined President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Thuma Mina (Send Me) clarion call. “This is my bit to assist because it would be pointless to charge a fee for listing a business on the app. People have fears about the internet and being scammed. “To me, it was really about helping and I think we are doing that because since going live on March 1, 65 businesses have listed on the platform, with limited marketing,” he said. On April 9, the app will launch on the Apple iOS platform. What’s the end goal for the app? “I want this to be the one-stop-shop for all township business throughout the country. I want tourists to be informed about the app when they visit South Africa so that they can really experience our townships. “I want to see people come back to me and say thank you for Explore iKasi app, thank you for the sales you have got for my business, or thank you for making my business sustainable. That would be enough for me,” he said. Recent years have seen a groundswell of support for small businesses, particularly since the advent of social media in South Africa. The perceived activism involved has led to a focus on celebrating  marginalised young and traditionally voiceless black talent. Hashtags and campaigns such as “Black Excellence”, “Young Gifted and Black” and many others of the ilk are leading with a new way of thinking in some quarters, with an air of “remember where you come from, procure black, support local”.   SUNDAY TRIBUNE