DURBAN: THE ANC’s national executive committee’s (NEC) decision to dissolve the KwaZulu-Natal provincial executive committee (PEC) has been labelled by applicants opposing its legitimacy in court as a victory for branches in the province that were “abused” by the exiting structure. At its meeting preceding this weekend’s lekgotla, the NEC opted to suspend the PECs of both KZN and the Free State and called for the establishment of interim structures “to unite and build the movement in preparation of provincial conferences re-runs”. The fresh conferences were expected to take place in April. Lawrence Dube, who was at the forefront of the faction that disputed the legitimacy of the PEC led by Sihle Zikalala and successfully challenged it in court, said the decision proved that when “sober people” were leading the results would always favour the majority. Dube accused the party’s former NEC of fuelling factionalism and being protective of wrongdoing. “We’re happy that the ANC is taking good direction now because it has sober leaders. “It shows that after this (national elective) conference we have a sober NEC, in the sense that they were able to respect the rule of law. I’m quite happy and I believe the other applicants in our matter feel the same way,” Dube said. He accused the outgoing PEC of lording over positions with the intention to loot, claiming the evidence of looting laid bare for all to see in the form of poor and bankrupt departments in the province. “We’re running at a R7.8billion deficit as a province. If (only), administratively, these people can be stripped of their positions of being MECs and uncompromised people be brought in,” Dube said. He said the NEC should put on a strong show of unity in the province by hauling members of the outgoing PEC before disciplinary hearings because they had brought the ANC into disrepute. “All that we have gone through (court action) was not necessary. Actually, the people who need to face disciplinary action are the NEC members who voted for this PEC to remain in office,” said Dube. Mdumiseni Ntuli, spokesperson of the outgoing PEC, said the NEC’s decision “enjoys the unconditional support of the outgoing PEC” as they believe that the NEC had sufficient time to reflect on the challenges the province currently faced. “In their collective wisdom, the best way to move forward was to suspend the PEC and replace it with an interim structure, which will run the affairs of the province and also prepare for a provincial conference,” Ntuli said. He added that the entire PEC, as “disciplined members of the ANC”, should support the decision of the national leadership in their individual roles as ordinary members of the party and also support the reconvening of the conference in three months. He also scoffed at Dube’s call for disciplinary measures to be taken against members of the disbanded PEC, and called it irrational. “It’s a call that originates from hatred rather than principle,” said Ntuli. He said Dube’s call was a sectarian one fired by factionalism and hatred of the PEC, and this would not aid them in rebuilding the party in KZN and holding a conference in three months. Meanwhile, speculation is rife that former MEC for economic development in KZN, Mike Mabuyakhulu, would contest the position of chairperson. Mabuyakhulu, a former party treasurer, was one of the MECs who was sacked when Zikalala was elected KZN chairperson. SUNDAY TRIBUNE