DURBAN - A DURBAN mother battling to pay the rates for her home which was allegedly petrol-bombed two years ago by land invaders says eThekwini officials have not yet delivered on promises to help her move. Since the attack on November 13, 2016, Vanessa Naidoo, 53, has been using more than half of her income to rent a one-bedroomed outbuilding in Overport. Even though there is no one in the house, she is also still paying rates and water levies for her Puntans Hill home, which was destroyed. Naidoo was asleep in her Earl Haig Road house when the first of the petrol-bombs was flung into her bedroom. As she and her then 18-year-old daughter scrambled to escape the blaze, a second petrol-bomb was thrown into her kitchen and a third into her lounge. Naidoo said her daughter, who did not want to be named, pleaded with their attackers to stop, but a final bomb was thrown at her car. “They (the attackers) stood there, watching us scream for help in a burning house,” said Naidoo. The house – and antique furniture Naidoo had been preserving – had been in the family since their ancestors came to Durban from India more than 150 years ago. “As we ran out of our home, the roof caved in and everything was destroyed. We had nothing, but if we hadn’t got out in time we would have died,” she said. In the week that followed, eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede visited Naidoo, bringing food and blankets. At the time, Gumede said she was devastated and reassured the family the city would intervene. “It is important to first ensure that the family is settled and receives the necessary counselling before focusing on their accommodation. There will be security on the ground in the area to ensure residents’ safety,” she said. Last week, Naidoo said the mayor had not helped her and her family move near relatives and workplaces. “She requested that we move into an RDP house in Cornubia, but I work in Overport and my daughter studies in Amanzimtoti,” Naidoo said. Naidoo, who is still suffering from trauma as a result of the incident, said: “About 300 people threatened residents and invaded eight properties.”
Naidoo has not been able to sell her property because of the escalation of land invasion in the community. Gumede’s spokesperson, Mthunzi Gumede, said he would bring the matter to her attention. “We will follow up. The mayor is a caring person and we will look into this,” he said. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said the levy account was terminated when the matter was brought to the city’s attention. Final meter readings were being captured “so that estimates get reversed accordingly”, she said. SAPS spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a 20-year-old was arrested in connection with arson last July, but the court case was withdrawn. SUNDAY TRIBUNE