DURBAN: EThekwini mayor Zandle Gumede has ordered an investigation into the city’s head of Integrity and Investigations (CIIU) amid allegations that his wife has allegedly been raking in tenders from the municipality without declaring their relationship.
A Sunday Tribune investigation and proof of invoice payments reveal that Planet Healthy - owned by Nosipho Ngcobo - wife of CIIU head, Mbuso Ngcobo, received work and payment from the city for over R500000 over the past three years. In addition, Ngcobo was also fingered in the 2016 auditor-general’s report for allegedly having business links with another company which received tenders from the municipality and for failing to declare this. However, Ngcobo has rejected the allegations, insisting he has no business links with any company and that he declared his wife’s company details when he joined the municipality. “When I joined eThekwini Municipality I requested my wife not to participate in any jobs of the municipality because, if she did, she would compromise me as the head of CIIU. To prevent being exposed to this conflict of interest I instructed the chairperson of the conflict of interest committee to remove my wife’s company from the municipality’s database of service providers.” Ngcobo also provided The Sunday Tribune with a signed declaration of interest form dated August 2015 - two years after he joined the municipality, in which he states his wife’s name and company details. However, he failed to disclose her business links with eThekwini. Instead, Ngcobo simply states “I don’t know” on the form when asked if his wife has tendered for work with the municipality. Asked how his wife continued to receive work and payments from the municipality over the past three years, Ngcobo said he did not know and was not aware of any such payments. The Tribune also discovered Planet Healthy remains on the city’s supplier database. Nosipho said her company, Planet Healthy, stopped working for the city a few years ago. “I did work for the municipality previously, but I don’t do it anymore. It was a family decision for me to stop work and be a housewife. I became the service provider before Mr Ngcobo was employed by the municipality, when he started work, it was declared I was a service provider there,” said Ngcobo. Mayoral office head Martin Xaba said: “These are serious allegations and, as such, the mayor has instructed the city manager to immediately begin investigating the claims and tenders awarded to Mr Ngcobo’s wife and the process around it.” A senior municipal officer who asked not to be named has called for investigations into the entire unit, adding other allegations of wrongdoing involving forensic investigators must also be probed. “There is a forensic investigator whose brother has been receiving tenders worth close to a million rand, yet this relationship was not declared. The fear is that it seems that the mayor has been captured by certain individuals within the municipality. She has asked for certain favours and now remains indebted to individuals who are seen to be running the municipality from their offices and phones. The mayor has no say any more.” Xaba dismissed the claims, saying decisions are not taken by individuals, but as a collective. “To say the mayor is captured is rumour peddling in an attempt to discredit her. She has been cleaning up the municipality and that is why there are attempts to undermine her efforts. Everyone deserves the right to give their side of the story and we cannot suspend individuals on the basis of rumour mongering or hearsay. That is why we have processes in place to deal with allegations. We need to allow the investigations to determine the facts and will act accordingly,” said Xaba. SUNDAY TRIBUNE