DURBAN: More chaos is expected on Monday at the Durban University of Technology’s (DUT) campuses and University of South Africa (Unisa) on Stalwart Simelane (formerly Stanger) Street after wage negotiations collapsed, and prompted waves of protests this week. At DUT, the strike which was led by the National Health Education & Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu), Tertiary Education National Union of South Africa (Tenusa), and National Tertiary Education Union (Nteu) crippled student registration that was due to start last Monday. Unions said negotiations, on Wednesday, had fallen apart, after their 10% wage demand was rejected by management A Nehawu member at DUT, Mike Mbatha, said they were not prepared to accept anything below 10%. He blamed the council of failing to resolve the impasse. Mbatha said negotiations began in October but the council had moved from its initial 4% offer to 6%. Mbatha said he could not accept the new offer because it was based on a cost to company basis. “They have undermined us for far too long as negotiations began in October,” he said. Mbatha said even those who initially betrayed the strike later joined them outside because they were feeling the heat inside. “They said they could not handle the workload of registering students and other admin duties. Tomorrow, we expect everyone to join us to exert pressure on the council. The delay could have a negative impact on the semester modules. This should be treated as an emergency by the institution. “DUT has decided to treat us with disdain even though it impacted the services needed by students,” Mbatha said. Sphephelo Mthembu, president of the DUT Student Representative Council (SRC), said the strike had affected student registration. Mthembu said students from rural areas were the worst hit by the strike action. “We have people coming from deep rural villages who have become prey to criminals because they do not have accommodation, others sleep on the corridors outside the premises,” he said. Good Samaritan, pastor Xolani Ndlovu of World Gospel Impact Church in Cato Manor, had helped more than 35 stranded students, who could not complete their registration processes, by paying for their accommodation at a Durban hotel. DUT spokesperson Noxolo Memela said no agreement had been reached between the parties. However engagements were ongoing in a bid to find a solution, she said. “Although registration has been slightly affected, students are being registered.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE