Durban - Gone are the days Quarry Heights Primary School pupils had to walk long distances to neighbouring schools after school to access library services. Eleven entrepreneurs from the Inanda, Ntuzuma and KwaMashu areas, have a new school library which was opened on Thursday. It will allow the pupils and teachers to access the library during and after school during weekdays. Teachers heaped praise on the opening of the library, saying it would play a vital role in improving the school’s academic performance. The entrepreneurs under the ORENDA campaign - a company committed to developing entrepreneurs; qualified for an intensive six-month course aimed at developing their businesses with mentorship, online learning and a strong sense of community. Spokesperson for ORENDA, Jonas Barausse said the entrepreneurs selected an incredible school in need of help and decided to make this school their goal. The target was set to provide over 1000 pupils with a meal per day. They also launched a massive book drive called 'feed the mind' to help Quarry Heights Primary fill their empty library. "The entrepreneurs got local franchise Chicken Xpress involved to help with the meals and they themselves joined the staff in the kitchen over two days to help prepare over 1000 meals. The book drive called on people to donate books and 14 drop off points were set up from Umlazi to Pietermaritzburg and from Glenwood to Salt Rock." Quarry Heights Principal Ntombi Khumalo-Madlala said it was a dream for her pupils to have access to the library. Madlala said that even though her school is a no-fee school this does not mean that the pupils do not deserve the best education. "These books will help us fulfil our vision of teaching children to the fullest of our ability because every child deserves a good education. I  cannot tell you how many times I prayed for my pupils to get these book, this an absolute dream come true for me." Njabulo Johnson, one of the participating entrepreneurs said the program allowed them to give back to the community. "Ma'am Madlala who is the headmistress of Quarry Heights school is my classmate in the program, she expressed how she wanted to do something nice for all the kids at her school for December and asked if we could help, of course we all agreed, Orenda helped her to get sponsors for books and burgers from Chicken Expresss franchise," said Johnson. "We were able to deliver them and the experience of giving back to these kids was very gratifying. Our hard work had put a smile on so many young faces. This experience taught me the importance of giving back and the impact it can have on the less fortunate," said Johnson. Sunday Tribune