After the University of KwaZulu Natal paid for a private investigation, it was alleged that he never completed his studies at the university’s medical school, which meant he should not have practised as an intern. Dayanand was suspended from the hospital and dismissed. Ncumisa Mafunda, spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health, said: “Once the department became aware of a fraudulently-acquired qualification by (Dayanand), who was later revealed to be a medical intern, he was suspended from Northdale Hospital and dismissed. A police case was registered with the SAPS.” Normah Zondo, UKZN spokesperson, said the university also opened a criminal case against Dayanand. Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo confirmed that they were looking into the cases. “The Hawks are investigating and are waiting for the finalisation of documents that are being analysed,” he said. There is one more leg to this story. In July this year, businessman Visham Panday brought an application in the Pietermaritzburg High Court to stop Reshal Dayanand from “passing himself off as a medical practitioner”. In court papers he said he did so on behalf of patients who would have been treated by Dayanand or who could be treated by Dayanand in the future. This week he told the Sunday Tribune: “I brought the application on behalf of the people who can’t go to private hospitals and are dependent on public hospitals for their well-being. “I was born in a government hospital. My father died in a government hospital. As a result, I wanted to ensure that those who go to government hospitals were not treated by bogus doctors. “This application cost me money but I was prepared to take up the matter for the sake of ensuring that justice was done.” Panday said it was important the investigation was expedited because the health of ordinary people was at stake. Dayanand was cited as the first respondent and opposed the matter on the basis that the allegations were untrue. Other respondents included; the minister of health nationally and in KwaZulu-Natal, the HPCSA, the Director of Public Prosecutions in KwaZulu-Natal and UKZN. Dayanand said Panday brought the application to harass and defame his father, a well-known Pietermaritzburg doctor, as well his family. The matter has not been finalised. Sunday Tribune