He hit back at his “hater”, Noel Lal, an Australian delegate and former Gopio vice-president, and challenged him to “be a man” and deal directly with him on the Gopio International group, which has thousands of followers. Gopio’s media council co-chairperson, Marlan Padayachee, said that the public spat between two prominent members was “distressing”. Padayachee said his organisation called on all members to be more circumspect when interacting on social media platforms. Ramlutchman, who was previously convicted with fraud, recently became the subject of a Hawks criminal investigation over his company’s failure to carry out a R95million borehole drilling contract for the Umzinyathi district municipality in KwaZulu-Natal. In media reports, Ramlutchman denied defrauding the municipality or that he was questioned by the Hawks about the drilling allegations. However, Lal riled Ramlutchman last week when he posted story links from the IOL website related to Ramlutchan’s previous fraud conviction and the recent Mail and Guardian article about the borehole matter. Lal’s comment attached to the story links read: “He (Ramlutchman) pleaded guilty before Twenty minutes later, Lal, an Australian businessman, upped the ante with his next post: “Gee no response so far (sic)...” He also took aim at Gopio’s South African delegates an hour later: “Hello, hello, anybody there. Mighty quite today, no (public) holiday as well” (sic). Ramlutchman eventually responded with a series of comments, including: “Noel, your hate and behaviour is sad as a former vice-president of Gopio. Be a man of the people. “You can do all this but remember you have to meet your creator. You cannot interfere with my soul. Be a man and raise your issue with me directly. Noel we know your agents in South Africa who won’t last. We are innocent.” Ramlatchman was not prepared to comment about the spat. Lal too refused to comment when approached. Padayachee said the fallout between the two officials was surprising. “Both officials played very powerful roles at one of the most successful conventions in Durban in 2017. Mr Ramlutchman had single-handedly co-ordinated the business conference and Mr Lal chaired the closing local organising committee. “It appears the change of hearts and attitude may have stemmed from the electoral contestation at the annual convention in Bahrain during January.” Padayachee urged: “Let’s deploy positive energy to the tremendous strides Gopio International is achieving for people of Indian origin and non-resident Indians, especially as we prepare for a gathering during the Parvasi Bharitiya Dias in Varanasi, India next month.” Sunday Tribune