THREE years after the start of its renovations and R7million later, the Rachel Finlayson pool on Durban’s beachfront will finally reopen on Saturday. When the Sunday Tribune visited the pool on Thursday, employees from the Parks and Culture Department were installing the surrounding lawn in preparation. The pool has been closed to the public since its “rehabilitation” began in August 2015. Thembinkosi Ngcobo, the municipality’s head of parks and recreation, confirmed that the pool would be ready to reopen next weekend. He said about R7m was spent on refurbishing the facility which was earmarked to be used for the 2022 Commonwealth Games, but Durban failed to put up the money and the city of Birmingham in the UK stepped in to host the event. “We are grateful the facility will be launched soon. It has been an eyesore for many years. Its condition always gave me heartache when I dined at the nearby California Dreaming restaurant. “But we hope its launch will provide a positive spin and inject cash to the city. The pool will help produce more young swimming talent to represent Durban internationally.” Ngcobo blamed contractors for the delay, which escalated the initial budget of R3m to R7m, and appealed to engineers and architects to work together on future projects of this magnitude. “We must work in unison to avoid a similar mistake. Contractors hired for the project did not adhere to standards required for the massive project. It added to delays. “I was flooded with questions regarding work at the pool, but people forget eThekwini is a client relying on service providers for expertise.” It was alleged that when the pool was first refurbished, it was discovered that the structure was made with bricks instead of concrete, which led to water seepage. The pool was 100m long and was later divided, and that was when the problem started because issues such as landscaping had not been taken into consideration. The pool’s structural set-up was apparently not considered when the initial contractor worked on refurbishing it, lifting the stairs without considering the height and how the tiling on the surface would be affected. Ngcobo said the pool development came as the city was involved in a R300m extension of the promenade which will run from Blue Lagoon to the harbour mouth. SUNDAY TRIBUNE