Eugene Adams, 44, a pipe fitter, was shot in front of his wife and children on Perrywinkle Road on Saturday. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Adams, the sole breadwinner in his family, was shot after an argument. He was shot in the head and abdomen and died at the scene. Adams’s wife Mandy said their son Donnel and three friends were robbed and assaulted by a group of boys when they were walking to a nearby mall. Donnel’s phone was stolen. He went home and explained what had happened to his parents. Mandy said the two groups of boys knew one another, so they went to one of the boys’ homes to try to retrieve the phone. The boy said he would contact his friends and ask for the phone to be returned. “We went to find a peaceful resolution to the problem. My husband had shorts and sandals on. He did not have any weapons. The boy’s father came out of the house and we spoke to him. We explained the scenario to him in isiZulu as well.” However, the situation turned ugly when the rest of the boys came to the house and a fight broke out. Mandy said the father, Staff Sergeant Sandile Myisa, had come out of the house and shot her husband. “I heard the gunshot. When I turned, I saw my husband on the floor. I did not realise he was shot. The man stood over him and shot him again. I dropped to my knees and held my husband. He was not a threat to anyone,” she said. Damian Lello, whose son was also robbed and struck with a bottle on his head, said his son came home with blood gushing from a cut on his neck. “The police at Brighton Beach refused to open a case or come out to the scene to catch the perpetrators. They turned the scenario around like we were the assailants. “Two weeks ago my son was robbed of his phone by the same group of boys. If the police had done their job on both occasions, Eugene would have been alive,” Lello said. Mandy said that while the family was mourning, other residents from houses reserved for the SANDF remarked that they would shoot to kill anyone walking on the road. “The police had allowed him to walk around the crime scene, and only when we enquired did they go into his house, fetch him and put him into the back of the police vehicle,” she said. “We work hard to buy stuff. If I knew my husband was not coming back, I would have said to forget the phone. We had so much to look forward to: the children’s academic careers in the New Year and a trip to Port Elizabeth for a prayer this weekend. What will happen to us now? The army should train its people properly.” Mbele said a case of murder was being investigated by Brighton Beach SAPS. Mandy was told that Myisa was taken to the Durban Magistrate’s Court for a special hearing on Monday and was granted bail. He was then placed under arrest by the military police and taken into custody. He is being held in a prison cell in Pietermaritzburg. Brigadier General Mafi Mgobozi, SANDF spokesperson, said the incident was in the hands of the SAPS to investigate, but the SANDF would also look into the matter. Daily News