The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education is confident that the matric results will not disappoint when released later this week. Spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said that the results had been on an upward trajectory over the past 24 months. The National Senior Certificate was written by 796542 pupils nationally and Mthethwa said that the department was confident that the provincial pass rate would improve because it had put in extra effort to ensure matric pupils performed well. “Our matric pass rate increased for two consecutive years and last year KwaZulu-Natal was the province with the biggest improvement in results, therefore we are very optimistic about this year’s results,” he said. Mthethwa said the department had paid special attention to maths and physics, ensuring these critical subjects were understood by teachers and pupils. “We made sure our maths and science teachers attended workshops and we called in maths and science specialists to ensure our teachers are fully equipped to teach these subjects,” he said. Independent Examinations Board spokesperson Teresa Settas said that 11514 full-time and 858 part-time candidates from 249 examination centres across Southern Africa wrote the IEB National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations in October and November this year. “This is an increase from 2017, when there were 11464 full-time candidates and 666 part-time candidates,” she said. Speaking at Umalusi’s Pretoria offices yesterday, chief executive DrMafu Ramoketsi said that there were no exam paper leaks this year and that the body was satisfied that there had been an improvement in the quality of the papers submitted for approval. Umalusi, which oversees National Senior Certificate examinations, spokesperson Lucky Dituanyane said it was pleased to report that the 2018 national examinations “went smoothly without any systemic irregularities”. “These irregularities or malpractices that compromise the integrity of examinations on a large scale, for example, paper leakages, have the potential to affect an entire subject,” he said. Exam results for both public and private school matric pupils will be made public on January 4. SUNDAY TRIBUNE