DURBAN - FROM floor to ceiling, and length to length - Suncoast has been completely refurbished. Tsogo Sun management says the new look is worth over a billion Rand. The floor space has increased to a total of 48 012m², which is the equivalent of five rugby fields. There are 10 new eateries, three retail outlets, increased casino space, and underground parking, among other additions. This refurbishment added 8 000 square metres to the Golden Mile. Mike Dowsley, the director of operations at Suncoast, said: “We aim to become Durban’s most loved entertainment destination by ensuring that there is something for the entire family and providing memorable experiences for every visitor." The venue receives almost six million customers a year, Suncoast said. The casino floor has a modern new design, with the number of slots increasing to 1 850, and tables increasing to 71. The games room for children has been enlarged, and facilities including a custom-built Barnyard Theatre and a multi-purpose events venue, The Globe, have been introduced. This means Suncoast will become home to a variety of festivals as The Globe seats over 2000 people. The project, which was undertaken over two years ago was said to have created 1400 temporary jobs during construction. The new facilities add 700 permanent jobs. “It has been an incredible 24 months of development on this project.  The fact that this build was completed in record time, whilst remaining open 24/7/365 is an enormous achievement and testimony to the teamwork amongst all 57 contractors and our team of over 1 800 employees. Our sincere thanks must go to the city stakeholders for their partnership, shared vision, support and guidance, to Durban Tourism and Tourism KZN for positioning Durban and KZN, and to our precinct partners who continue to work to raise the product offering on the Golden Mile,” said Dowsley. Glenn Joseph, chief operations officer of Tsogo Sun Gaming, said they remained "committed to the development and economic growth of Durban. We have spent over R4 billion on casino and hotel refurbishments in the past five years – R1.6 billion of which has been invested into Suncoast. This redevelopment project has been the bulk of our focus with regards to capital expenditure, and is testiment to our confidence in South Africa, and in Durban in particular". Sunday Tribune