SHE woke up before the crack of dawn and donned her favourite clothes for the local Christmas party. It’s here that 78-year-old Dhaya Biharia would meet hundreds of senior citizens from Phoenix to enjoy meals, entertainment and hampers from the eThekwini Municipality. But by 10am she had been standing in the sun, for almost three hours, without water to drink. The annual senior citizens Christmas parties hosted by the municipality have been described as a disaster by several ward councillors. “I woke up at 5am, and walked all the way from my home and came to the hall without having breakfast because I had thought that we were going to receive breakfast and lunch,” she said. Biharia is one of the almost 600 pensioners who lined up outside Stanmore hall in Phoenix, for the party that was set to start at 8am. She was disappointed to find that there were no food parcels waiting for them when they arrived. “The Christmas party came late this year. It’s usually before Christmas and this year it did not come at all. “Instead we have been lined outside this hall since 7am, to be handed food parcels like animals,” she said. Biharia was looking forward to the meals and hampers before Christmas so she could provide her six grandchildren with a meal on Christmas Day. Ward 50 councillor Lyndal Singh said she was disappointed at the way the municipality treated the elderly. “I have been liaising with the mayor’s office since the beginning of the month trying to find out the correct details of how the senior citizens Christmas party was going to be arranged and each time I was met with disappointment,’ she said. Singh said the only email she received instructed her to fetch the tickets for the parcels. “I cannot as a councillor book a hall and contractor because it is against ethics, I am not allowed. This is an annual event and I have never booked a hall because that is the job of the municipality,” she said Spokesperson for the mayor’s office, Mthunzi Gumede, said he found it odd that the problems happened mostly in DA run wards. “You have to understand that the elections are approaching and parties may be using these parties to campaign to make the ANC and eThekwini look incompetent,” he said Gumede said there were two private halls double booked but they managed to deliver parcels to senior citizens. “It is unfortunate that the owners of the halls did not alert us of such bookings,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE