IT HAS been a “booming” festive season for Durban’s tourism and hospitality industry. With a week of fun and sun still to go before the season draws to a close, eThekwini Municipality’s deputy city manager: economic development and planning, Phillip Sithole, said Durban was on track to surpass the earnings and visitor attendance figures it had forecast. “We expected 1 million visitors this festive season. With a week to go, we have already reached that goal." He said 70000 of the visitors were international guests. Sithole said it was anticipated that the local tourism and hospitality industries would pocket around R2.5billion for the entire season. “Thus far, R2bn has been earned, and with international visitors known to flock to the city at the tail-end of the holiday season, we are optimistic about exceeding our target.” According to Sithole, Durban’s beaches have been the city’s main attraction again, with Gateway Shopping Mall the next best crowd-puller. Sithole enthused about the upward spiral in township visits. “Durban is number one in the country for township tourism. uMlazi has drawn the most interest with shisha nyama places like Max’s Lifestyle and eYadini being the big attractions,” he said. After a slow start, Durban’s restaurants and hotels have been kept busy, said Charles Preece, the Federated Hospitality Association of SA’s operations manager: East Coast. “This has been one of the best seasons but not different to previous, although the first week did not give us much hope. “But a week before Christmas, hotel bookings increased, North to South coasts, hotels received a fair share of visitors. "At the moment, the capacity at the hotels looks good. Hotels along the Marine Parade are fully booked,” Preece said. Acting chairperson of festive season management committee, Malcolm Canham, said while visitors continued to flock to Durban, safety continued to be their main priority. “We pride ourselves as the city that works tirelessly to ensure the safety of our visitors and residents and thus far no major crime or drowning incidents have been reported. “Everything is under control,” Canham said. With New Year’s Eve approaching, he urged visitors and beachgoers to be more vigilant and to ensure that their children were kept within sight and were safe at all times. He warned that bottles and alcohol were strictly prohibited at beaches and said that people found contravening the law would land themselves in trouble. Canham reminded visitors that fireworks must be handled responsibly. “The municipal by-law allows for fireworks to be set off from 11.45pm on December 31 until 0.15am in the New Year,” he said. Metro police spokesperson Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said officers from his department had been kept busy, especially by drunk drivers. “We have arrested almost 400 drunk drivers thus far. The number of women driving drunk has also spiked. This seems to be a new trend because in the past we hardly caught women offenders.” Sewpersad said more than 26000 motorists had been fined for various offences and they had planned further roadblocks and searches. Ishmael Mnisi, spokesperson for the National Department of Transport, said road deaths continued to be a big concern. “This highlights the importance of using safety belts and child restraints.” Mnisi said law enforcement operations would be stepped up and public safety campaigns intensified especially during key travelling dates, when holidaymakers headed home. “We urge those who are planning to travel in the coming days to adhere to the rules of the road. "Drive within the set speed limit, buckle up, avoid the use of cellphones while driving, use roadworthy vehicles, remain calm, take regular stops to avoid fatigue and avoid the use of alcohol while driving,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE