DURBAN - The case of fraud, corruption and money laundering against ANC KZN interim leader Mike Mabuyakhulu and several others was not politically motivated, the Hawks said outside the Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Wednesday. The charges relate to R28 million which the KZN Department of Economic Development and Tourism in around 2012 forked out for a music concert - the North Sea Jazz Festival - that never took place. Mabuyakhulu and the former head of department, Desmond Khalid Golding, secured R50 000 bail, while four others were released on R30 000 bail each. Three additional suspects named in the indictment, Durban socialite and businessman Mabheleni Ntuli, Ntokozo Ndlovu and Nothando Zungu are expected to be arrested soon. Also read: Mike Mabuyakhulu arrested Also read: R28m wasted on KZN Jazz festival  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. KZN Hawks spokesperson, Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo, said the case against Mabuyakhulu had been under investigation since 2012. Asked why it had taken so long to come to court, he said: "It is important to mention that the Hawk’s investigation is prosecution guided where we work together with the National Prosecuting Authority in terms o f gathering the evidence and other investigation queries. As a result we do our investigation first and we finalise it then we bring the case before court, charge the accused accordingly and they appear in court. "This case is not politically inspired because it started in 2012 and we were busy with our investigation. When we are busy with our investigation we leave no stone unturned to ensure that the accused are linked to the alleged offences that they are suspected of conducting. So we are not rushing our investigation, we are making sure that we bring all the necessary evidence before court," said Mhlongo. This investigation started in 2012 where the accused were alleged working for the Department of Economic Development and Tourism. Mhlongo said it was alleged that the money was paid to the service providers, but the services were never rendered. The case was postponed to April 6. Also read: Mike Mabuyakhulu arrested WHO ARE THE ACCUSED? 1. Desmond Khalid Golding 2. Ceaser Walter Mkhize 3. Soft Skills Communications 100CC (represented by Ceaser Walter Mkhize) 4. Shaka Holdings (represented by Ceaser Walter Mkhize) 5. Zandile Nonjabulo Mbongwe 6. Maqhoboza Traders CC (represented by Ceaser Walter Mkhize and Zandile Nonjabulo Mbongwe) 7. Nothando Zungu 8. Ishashalazi Productions CC (represented by Nothando Zungu) 9. Mabheleni Leewas Ntuli 10. Super Size Investment 20 CC (represented by Mabheleni Leewas Ntuli) 11. Nonhlanhla Brenda Ninela (Mfeka) 12. Mzwandile Basil Ninela 13. Ishinga Holdings (represented by the Ninela's, accused 11 and 12) 14. Ntokozo Ndlovu 15. DMD Capital (PTY) LTD (represented by Ntokozo Ndlovu) 16. Michael Mabuyakhulu SUNDAY TRIBUNE