DURBAN - The Durban man who went viral on social media last year with his bold black and red ‘Zuma Must Fall’ tattoo is set to alter the permanent mark to one that incorporates the Freedom Charter statement ‘South Africa belongs to all’. Jason Barber, 29, ran out into the streets of Sunningdale, Durban North, where he lives and screamed with joy when the former president announced his resignation late on Valentine’s Day.  “Our country had a horrible time because of Jacob Zuma and the issues around him, like the arms deal and Khwezi, he was a constant presence that brought the country down. He did do good for the country but this was outweighed by the bad,” said Barber. Barber is formerly from Gauteng, had protested alone in front of the ANC headquarters in Durban the week before the nationwide ‘Zuma Must Fall’ marches on April 7. “Pravin Gordhan had just been fired as finance minister and it was ridiculous. I stood outside the ANC’s headquarters and protested until they chased me away. This ultimately led ideas of a mass march,” he said.  Following the national marches, Barber took South Africans by surprise with his devotion to the campaign with a bold ‘Zuma Must Fall’ tattoo, even getting threats on social media. He went live on Facebook while getting ‘inked’ with his new tattoo.    “It’s not just a status but a constant message. Our constitution had been violated and South Africans, through the marches, were saying enough is enough. It took this collective action to get him out,” he said. Barber is set to change the ‘Fall’ in his tattoo to ‘all’, and incorporate the message ‘South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity’ over the current tattoo which he said would give a symbolic meaning that the former president is in the past, and the country is looking to a brighter future.  Barber said: “My mother always envisioned Cyril Ramaphosa becoming president so I pictured him as a leader. He also assisted in moving our country towards democracy. Now, when you see him in parliament he speaks with respect and understand the responsibility of his position.” WATCH: ‘Zuma Must Fall’ tattooed man describes his new hope for South Africa To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE