DURBAN - THE appointment of Gwede Mantashe as the minister of minerals resources has been given a thumbs-up by the Bench Marks Foundation. The Bench Marks Foundation is faith-based organisation owned by the churches in South Africa. The executive director of Bench Marks Foundation, John Capel, said: “The new minister once worked in a mine and, as former general secretary of the ANC, must be aware of the many negative impacts and the winners and losers’ dichotomy.” He said President Cyril Ramaphosa saw mining as a sunshine industry, “but the sun is only for some. Will he be committed to making it a sunshine industry for impacted communities and workers as well?” he asked. He added: “If the mining sector is to become a ‘sunshine’ industry, it has to search for clean, democratic and empowering alternatives to community involvement. It also has to factor in concerns about water use and climate change.” Mantashe, who was elected as ANC chairman in its December conference took over from Mosebenzi Zwane, who was a seen as a close family friend of the controversial Gupta family. Zwane oversaw the implementation of the Mining Charter, which was put on hold after the Chamber of Mines challenged its implementation. The portfolio committee on mineral resources welcomed the announcement by Ramaphosa during the State of the Nation Address (SONA), that government will be determined to work with mining companies, unions and communities to grow the mining sector. Capel urged Mantashe to level the playing fields between mine owners and communities. “The poor and working people will not accept the obligation of saving the sector, while they die of poverty, marginalisation and illnesses directly related to mining. This externalisation of costs onto people and the environment must come to an end. We trust the new minister will be firm in this regard.” Mantashe is among the new cabinet ministers who will finish the remainder of former President Jacob Zuma’s tenure which expires after the national general elections next year. And while the Active Citizens Movement(ACM) has welcomed the cabinet reshuffle it was concerned about the retention of some “incompetent” ministers in the cabinet. “The ACM expresses concern at the retention of incompetent ministers who have been re-allocated such as Bathabile Dlamini, (former social development minister now minister for women and Malusi Gigaba, former finance minister now deployed back to home affairs).” ACM cited Dlamini’s reckless handling of the social grant issue and Gigaba’s alleged ties with the Gupta family. The movement is calling for these two ministers to be dropped from the cabinet.