He was speaking shortly before KZN DA delegates took to vote for their provincial leadership and on the news that De Lille would be facing a motion of no confidence at the hands of her own party in  the middle of this month. In October, security upgrades at De Lille’s home, the disbanding of a special investigative unit and a tender scandal at the City of Cape Town’s transport directorate came to light. De Lille has been accused, alongside recently resigned municipal manager Achmat Ebrahim, of covering up tender irregularities within the directorate whose commissioner Melissa Whitehead has been placed on suspension. Speaking at the DA’s provincial conference at the Olive Convention Centre yesterday, Maimane said in the campaign for 2019, they are not simply looking for a change from “black, green and gold to blue”. “We even confronted the ugly and uncomfortable truth that not every DA government will live up to the standards we set for ourselves,” he said, referring to the Western Cape. “It doesn’t matter who you are in the DA and what level of office you hold, we will hold you accountable,” he warned. He told delegates that they could not allow themselves to be consumed by factionalism and infighting and had to rather focus on gaining the votes of young, black South Africans. He referred to the 2016 local government elections and commended KZN for showing growth in leadership and support. “In politics you are only as strong as your last election results and you are often at your weakest after your greatest victory. “This province has defined our national political trends over the last decade, and it is the province where so much of our party’s future fortunes will be decided,” he said. He also warned those wearing DA paraphernalia supporting a particular person in the party. There were hoards of delegates wearing T-shirts showing their support for re-elected KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango. “After today, you use those shirts as pyjamas. You should use only the shirt that says DA. Not an individual. You are a member of the DA and not a member of a member,” he said.