Mncwango retained his position after he bagged 347 votes at the party’s provincial elective conference yesterday. He was up against Sizakele Emmanuel Mhlongo, who received 151 votes. The Olive Convention Centre auditorium was drowned in blue and white confetti when the results were announced, and delegates lifted Mncwango on their shoulders in celebration. Mncwango has won his second term at the helm of KZN after grabbing this position in 2015 from Sizwe Mchunu, the DA MPL in the provincial legislature. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Deputy provincial chairperson Mergan Chetty, a close ally of Mncwango, also retained his position in the provincial leadership. Mncwango said he was humbled to stand as the party’s leader for a second term and pegged his stance in the fight to win over the province from the ANC. He said there was only one goal for the DA now, which was to knock the ANC off their pedestal in the province. “We must ensure that we work with whoever is willing to work with us and share our values and vision for this province and country. Getting into government is our main priority now,” he said. He called on delegates to work harder than before in the build-up to 2019. He said land security, education, water, employment and crime were at the forefront of issues plaguing the province. He encouraged delegates to be alert and ready to protect each other as he believes intimidation of DA members may increase. “There’s going to be a lot of intimidation and we must all rally to protect our foot soldiers.” He also called for the end of factions in the party, saying there were some individuals who wanted to sustain factionalism. It was his personal duty to unite the province and he urged opponents who had contested positions in this election to leave the race behind them. Encouraging the DA in KZN to “be brave” and garner the votes of “young black South Africans”, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party needed to display the most diverse team at the national elections in 2019. “In the past, we were excellent in gaining the support from the minorities but now we must be brave. We must move out boldly and confidently to approach young, black South Africans to join our mission and vision,” Maimane said. He called on delegates to make this part of their mission in the build-up to 2019. Mncwango said his first task was to present a united party to potential voters. “We cannot go to voters if we are not united. So, above all else, uniting this party is a priority,” he said. Deputy leader Chetty said the goal was to bring the ANC’s support in the province to below 50%. “The message is clear. The ANC must beware,” Chetty said. Newly elected provincial chairperson Francois Rodgers won his position with 283 votes, edging out Dean Macpherson, who received 204 votes. Rodgers said the new leadership ultimately had the task to save the province from the ANC. Hlengiwe Shozi, Craig Millar and Shehana Kajee were elected as the three deputy chairpersons of the province. SUNDAY TRIBUNE