DURBAN - While it’s not rare, tonight’s lunar eclipse will be the longest the country has ever seen. According to Daniel Cunnama, a science engagement astronomer at the South African Astronomical Observatory, the lunar eclipse on Friday will last for almost two hours, longer than usual. The moon is not the only one putting on a show tonight, Mars is expected to make its closest approach to Earth in 15 years, Andrew Fazekas, a science columnist at National Geographic noted. “On the 27th, the red planet will swing the closest it has come to Earth since August 2003, allowing sky-watchers around the world to see our neighbouring world about as big and bright it can ever get in our skies,” he said. The Blood Moon, as sinister as it sounds, is simply the Earth’s shadow on the moon as the eclipse occurs and can be viewed by stargazers with the naked eye, according to the SA Astronomical Observatory (SAAO). As the natural phenomenon looms closer, Scoop Whoop listed 10 superstitions about the lunar eclipse, believed by some from parts of the world; 1. India - Avoid eating during the eclipse as the food would not at it’s best form. 2. United States of America - The lunar eclipse is a sign of the forthcoming apocalypse. 3. Tibet - Both good and bad deeds are multiplied during the eclipse. 4. Togo and Benin - Many Batammaliba people in these western parts of Africa believe the eclipse meant that the sun and moon are fighting. They would pray so that the celestial bodies resolve their conflict. 5. Around the world - many believe that pregnant women should stay indoors because they dark moon would curse the unborn child. There is also a believe that pregnant women should not use sharp objects, fearing it would leave a birthmark on the body of the unborn child. 6. India - If you cut yourself during an eclipse you may bleed for a long time, and the scar may last forever. 7. The Inca people saw an eclipse as an attack on the moon by a jaguar. 8. The Aztecs predicted that if a solar eclipse was accompanied by an earthquake, the world would come to an end. 9. The Greeks thought an eclipse meant that the Gods would rain down punishment on the king. To save the king from their wrath, a substitute king would be placed instead of the real one. Once the eclipse was over, the substitute king would be executed. 10. In some Australian aboriginal cultures, an eclipse meant that the Sun and the Moon were having more children. SUNDAY TRIBUNE