DURBAN - ETHEKWINI mayor Zandile Gumede may seek to appeal this week’s judgment following a court order for her to personally pay the legal costs that the DA incurred last year when it applied to the Durban High Court to prevent her threatening #ZumaMustFall demonstrators. Mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said: “Having studied the judgment, the mayor will consult her legal team with a view to establishing what options may be available to her, including whether to lodge an appeal against the judgment.” Durban High Court Judge Johan Ploos van Amstel dismissed her application to cancel the order to pay the legal fees. The judgment came more than a year after the DA’s successful court interdict against Gumede. Last year, the #ZumaMustFall march, also styled as the “Walk to Save SA”, saw thousands converge on the Durban promenade. They chanted for Jacob Zuma to step down as president in the wake of corruption allegations against him. But in the days leading up to the April 7 mass march, Gumede allegedly threatened that marchers would face arrest. The mayor allegedly told an SABC journalist the “nasty march” amounted to treason and that all security agencies, including the police, would be out in full force to arrest anyone marching against Zuma. Gumede denied making these statements, and the SABC later retracted the story. But court papers filed last year by the DA’s advocate, Natalie Lange, showed that DA MP Haniff Hoosen received phone calls from marchers concerned about apparent imminent arrests. That led the DA to apply for an urgent interdict. The interdict granted by Judge John Olsen prevented Gumede from threatening or procuring the arrest of participants in the lawful march on April 7 last year. The judge called on Gumede to show just cause why an order to pay costs should not be made against her. But when the matter came to court, Gumede’s defence team had not filed court papers and did not appear in the Durban High Court, resulting in the order against her. Gumede appealed against it, but after a drawn-out court dispute, Judge Ploos van Amstel ruled on Thursday that the evidence in Gumede’s affidavit was “sketchy and inadequate”. He dismissed her application with costs. Lange said the judgment was significant because the mayor was ordered to pay the costs from her own pocket. “She could not simply pass on the cost to taxpayers.” Lange estimated the bill would exceed R80000. SUNDAY TRIBUNE