DURBAN - SAME ocean, same waves, but half the prize money, a gender watch group noted, raising the alarm about apparent sexism in the professional surfing industry, which raised its head at this week’s 50th edition of the contest. Billed as the “world’s longest running professional contest”, the week-long event ended yesterday at Willards Beach in Ballito in the wake of a social media storm about the discrepancies in prize money for men and women surfers. This was sparked by a post on the Ballito Pro Facebook page featuring a picture of male-surfer Rio Waida, from Indonesia, with his R8000 prize money for Under-18 men’s Junior series competition, alongside female counterpart Zoe Steyn from East London, who took home R4000.   The post was picked up in Australia by the gender rights advocacy group, “Our Watch”, which reposted the picture, stating: If you think the gender pay gap isn’t real, think again. Same ocean, same waves, half the prize money. If we don’t treat women with respect and equality at a young age, what kind of future are we building for them? It’s 2018, the time for change is now.” For Cape Town longboard surfer and Ocean Pledge founder Diony Lalieu, the picture showed how women were still not taken seriously in competitive sport. “It seems we are still expected to be lying on the beach in a G-string, not competing in a ‘man’s world’. Still, a surprise in a supposedly progressive and modern sport. But it exists and with supposed justification from a ‘crowd-pulling’ point of view. Male athletes draw more spectators, they say, and so are more worthy of funding,” she said. Responding, the World Surf League which implements criteria to determine ratings and prize money, said the disparity was because more men competed than women on the world professional surfing circuit. Ballito Pro organisers subsequently released a statement saying the issue would be addressed moving forward. Stepping up, one of the competition’s main sponsors, BOS, also stated online that the company would pay the difference in prize money to winning women surfers. “BOS will pay the difference in prize money to reflect equal prize money for equal titles. Going forward, we also commit that we will only sponsor events that pay equal prize money for an equal title.” Meanwhile, in a week in which Saudi Arabia lifted a ban on women driving, in Puerto Rico, six female surfers made their own leap towards gender equality by competing in the Puerto Escondido Cup, at one of the heaviest beach breaks in the world. “So at a time in history when the movements like #MeToo and the Women’s March are calling for massive changes, a handful of females stood on top of giants, risking their lives and putting everything on the line in a call for women everywhere to ‘woman up’, said Alexa Hohenberg, an outdoor adventurer and professional snowboarder. SUNDAY TRIBUNE