DURBAN - IT MIGHT be a tough time economically, but Princess Charlene of Monaco encouraged South Africans to work together and “things will get better” when she visited Pinetown yesterday. Princess Charlene, a former South African Olympic swimmer who married Prince Albert in 2011, said she had been in the country for more than a week, which gave her the opportunity to catch up with recent developments.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “My parents say the cost of living is going up all the time. I’ve been reading the newspapers and I also saw that the fuel price went up. I don’t know how people survive. “But I would not give up hope that there is a great future for the people of this country. Everyone should work together and it will get better,” she said. Having been in the thick of the Nelson Mandela centenary birthday celebrations, where she rubbed shoulders with local and international dignitaries and celebrities earlier this week, her brief stopover at the Lahee Park swimming precinct was more of a spiritual mission. After all, Her Royal Highnessthe princess trained at that venue for eight years under the guidance of internationally acclaimed swimming coach Graham Hill.  While she’s known for her beauty, elegance and effervescent personality, her kind heart is another of her positive traits. Apart from setting up her own Princess Charlene of Monaco Foundation focused on making children water-safe, she is also a patron of the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund and serves on a string of other charities. She used her influence to direct funding for a much-needed upgrade of the Lahee Park swimming pool, which is to become a high-performance sports centre. When her helicopter landed on one of the outer fields at the sports complex, a throng of people gathered to catch a glimpse of the princess. She spoke of the days when she trained at the venue with Terence Parkin, a deaf swimmer who won silver in the 2000 Sydney Olympics.  “We swam here for years and never had the luxury of a heated pool, but a few years later I found myself in a position where I could give back. The area needed this facility and I helped where I could,” she said. Of her passion to make children water-safe, she said: “Statistically, more than 370 000 people drown every year. I had friends and family who lost children through drowning. “I thought it important to get the message of being water-safe out there. Through my foundation, I tried to create an opportunity for children to learn CPR and about the dangers of water and how to swim,” she said. The princess said she often had a reason to visit the country. “I come here for various reasons – sometimes just to see my family. My foundation is established here. I also attend the board meetings for other charities, foundations and associations.” The princess revealed she also craved Durban cuisine, including curries. SUNDAY TRIBUNE