DURBAN - THE father of a convicted criminal wanted “no mercy” for his son, who was sentenced in the Durban High Court to life imprisonment. The convicted killer was arrested with his accomplices for killing Inanda SAPS Sergeant Vusumuzi Moyana and the attempted murder of his partner, Sergeant Ntombikayise Precious Jojisa. Handing down the sentence, Judge Xolile Ntshulana said Sabelo Mkhize, 28, Lindo- kuhle Mchunu, 20, and Sboniso Khubisa, 22, had shown no remorse and had not listened to their victim when he pleaded with them not to kill them. “It is saddening that police officers pleaded for their lives but the accused brutally shot them. An attack on police is an attack on the community,” Ntshulana said. He said the country had lost faith in the justice system which could lead to a lawless society when citizens took the law into their own hands. Ntshulana said the robbery was planned carefully with Khubisa armed with an AK47 rifle and Mchunu with a 9mm semi-automatic pistol. When Jojisa tried to draw a firearm she was disarmed. Jojisa and Moyana were lured into an ambush at the Namibia informal settlement in Inanda after Mkhize went to the police station on September 22, 2015 and sought help from the police to serve a protection order at a house in the area. When they got there the police officers were disarmed, stripped of their police uniforms, bundled into the back of the police van and the “mastermind” Mkhize drove the van to a secluded spot where they shot the officers and left them for dead before attempting to set the van alight. Jojisa survived after playing dead. Moyana died at the scene. Jojisa was taken to uMhlanga Hospital, where she spent more than a month recovering. After the sentencing, Mkhize’s father, Bheki, stood up with his walking aid and reached into his front pocket. He took out about R60 in notes and handed it to his son. Holding back tears, the father said he had accepted his son should be punished for his crime. “No father can be proud of his son’s criminal activities, but during the trial I was convinced that he was guilty as charged,” he said. The court was told that Mkhize had a string of convictions, including attempted murder and theft. Apart from the life sentence handed down for murder, the accused also got five years for attempted murder, plus 15 years for robbery of the officers’ uniforms and firearms. In court Moyana’s wife, Lihle, said she was happy with the sentence, but it would not bring her husband back. “The pain is engraved in my soul. Whenever I saw them, I thought of the pain they’d caused my family,” she said. Moyana’s uncle, Sipho Nkwanyana, said they welcomed the judgment. SUNDAY TRIBUNE