Phoenix - A Phoenix teacher who was found guilty of falsifying a doctor’s certificate in 2015 and going on sick leave for 1522 days will be back in class on Monday. Hopeville Primary School teacher Theresa Naicker returned to work a day before schools closed for the June holidays. Naicker, who had been found guilty by the Department of Education was redeployed to the human resources’ division where she only reported for two days and went on “permanent sick leave”. The details relating to Naicker’s matter were contained in a reply by Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane about Naicker’s case to DA MPL George Mari. With schools reopening on Monday, teachers are angry about her return because a temporary teacher who replaced her will now be without a job. Themba Ndhlovu, spokesperson for the South African Council of Educators (Sace), said they would open a file on the matter and start investigations, “which will guide our next course of action”. It was the first time the matter came to their attention. Asked why Naicker was not struck off the roll, Ndhlovu said: “Striking off an educator from the roll is a process. This means that the decision shall always follow a disciplinary hearing and a guilty finding. “We cannot strike an educator’s name from the roll unless due process had been followed.” The School Governing Body is also worried about her return. Clayton Joseph, the chairperson of the governing body, urged the department to resolve Naicker’s matter speedily, saying the pupils would be affected if nothing was done. “We can’t be going back and forth about this. It is sad because our children are on the receiving end. Naicker has been away for a long time and I doubt she is familiar with the Curriculum and Assessment Policy Statement (Caps) system,” he said. Caps replaced Outcomes-Based Education (OBE) in 2012 and teachers have been on continuous training about the system. Joseph said the SGB held a meeting two weeks ago and deliberated on Naicker’s case, “because we want to see finality on this matter”. A teacher who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “We are all surprised by her return at the school despite being found guilty of such a serious offence. This will dampen the morale of other teachers.” Another teacher said: “How is she going to internalise the syllabus as the year is almost over?” The DA is calling for Dlungwane to drop the axe on Naicker. Mari, who has been a thorn in the flesh of Dlungwane about Naicker’s continued employment despite the cloud hovering above her, said his party was considering opening corruption charges against Naicker. He said what angered him is that when Naicker was found guilty of falsifying a doctor’s note, she was redeployed to the Department of Education’s human resources’ division, instead of being fired. Mari dubbed Naicker KZN’s sickest teacher. While employed at Hopeville Primary, Naicker was paid R519420 for the 1522 days she took off. “She should have been suspended there and then. I don’t know where she gets so much power from,” said Mari. Education department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said: “The department is close to finalising her case. After we dismissed Naicker she lodged an appeal and we can’t take any decisions until her appeal is finalised.” * Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535. SUNDAY TRIBUNE