DURBAN - A showdown is looming between the Durban taxi associations and e-hailing services. Operators of mini buses are demanding that authorities take action against Uber and Taxify drivers for allegedly running their services without operator licences. Uber and Taxify drivers have in turn called on police to act against taxi owners who are believed to be constantly bullying them. There are 881 Uber vehicles in Durban and, ironically, it is alleged that almost 600 are owned by taxi bosses. An emergency meeting was held at the Durban City Hall on Monday between taxi associations, metro police and the Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison to discuss the regulatory issues. Shadrack Nzama, a member of the Durban Central Taxi Association said they had left the meeting with no clear answers about what would be done. “There are a whole lot of new issues regarding e-hailing services that needs to be addressed. Besides the issue of these drivers not having operating licences, some Uber and Taxify drivers are now trying to cut corners and are taking on clients for cash without even using the app,” said Nzama. He said authorities in KZN were not acting timeously and that created an impression that the province was a “safe-haven” for e-hailing drivers. Another problem he highlighted was that taxi drivers were being coerced into becoming Uber drivers and many were leaving the industry. “In other provinces, authorities are on the ball and they are taking action against those who are not operating within the ambits of the National Land Transport Act. In KZN, we are sleeping when it comes to this and that’s why more and more e-hailing drivers are coming here to operate. They view this as a place where they can do whatever they want and get away with it,” said Nzama. Monday’s meeting came on the back of more than 49 Uber and Taxify drivers being held hostage by taxi associations in Durban to “send out a message” to authorities about the ongoing feud between the two services last week Friday. On the same day, the DA’s deputy chief whip in KZN, Hlanganani Gumbi, was forced out of an Uber vehicle outside the DA’s provincial offices when three men, allegedly associated with the taxi industry, approached the driver and started to threaten him. Uber spokesperson Samantha Allenberg said the threats and intimidation against people who want to use the Uber app were unacceptable and must be condemned. “We believe in open and constructive dialogue with everyone on the future of urban transport. We are working with police and local government to ensure tourists, business travellers and residents alike can enjoy a safe, affordable, hassle-free time travelling however they choose to get around Durban,” said Allenberg. She said Uber technology was open and was a pro-choice platform. “We are keen to offer it to a broad number of taxi drivers to boost their chances for profit. In fact hundreds of taxi drivers are already using our technology because of the many benefits it brings to their businesses. We welcome more who wish to join,” said Allenberg. As a security measure, Allenberg said Uber had hired additional security response teams to monitor key areas. “We are offering drivers a mobile emergency app through Aura’s technology. However it is the police who are tasked with keeping our cities safe. Uber cannot fulfill the role of law enforcement.” Mluleki Mntungwa, spokesperson for the Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, said the department’s doors would remain open to taxi operators if they were not satisfied with the outcome of Monday’s meeting. “We are engaging with them to find a way forward. This is a matter of national interest and a task team has been appointed by the national transport minister to deal with e-hailing issues. We are expected to receive a report on this some time in August,” said Mntungwa. Head of metro police Steve Middleton said they faced two challenges - those operating without a licence and e-hailing services who are illegally ranking. “Following Monday’s meeting, there would be more rigid enforcement and the same set of rules would apply to the taxi industry and e-hailing services,” he said. Taxify did not respond by the time of going to press. The issues between the taxi industry and e-hailing services are not unique to Durban. Uber in Barcelona, Spain had to suspend its services after some of its drivers were attacked during a taxi strike, while London taxi drivers are considering a class action lawsuit against Uber, after the company was granted a temporary licence renewal to operate this week.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE