DURBAN - The first steps have been taken towards transforming a prime piece of Durban real estate into an upmarket residential development, including 208 living units and a Radisson Collection Hotel. Residents of Fairway in Durban North, who live near the Beachwood Golf Course, the development site, received the news with mixed feelings. They met Gavin Strydom of Beachwood Investments, the company responsible for the development, at a public meeting earlier this week. This was followed by an environmental impact assessment (EIA) meeting, led by Khushela Naidoo of Tripol4, the company tasked with carrying out the process. The consecutive public meetings were held in a conference room at the golf course. The golf course is at present zoned a private open space and has D’Moss (Durban Metropolitan Open Space System) classification because of the five wetland systems nearby. Residents’ concerns centred mostly on the possible negative impact that the massive sea- facing development would have on some of the eco-sensitive zones in the neighbourhood. They were also worried about the line of sight from their properties being affected and the impact on traffic in the area, as the M4 runs parallel with the course on Swapo (Broadway) Avenue. “This resource is held dear as an open and environmental space,” said one resident. Another local said: “Internationally, people would die to have a golf course on a coastline. It is a very prestigious thing to have. Please consider a development plan that would leave the course intact.” But Strydom assured his audience the development would be done with care. His company bought the golf course for R108million last year and their planned development is said to be worth R6bn. “This is an iconic site. If we mess up, Durban won’t forgive us,” he said. “I’m not ashamed to say we are in business to make money, but we will do it responsibly,” said Strydom. He said they had engaged with residents at this early stage, when designs for the development were still being established, so they could “field and accommodate concerns to the best of our ability”. “We might not be able to accommodate all their concerns but we have a genuine desire and wish to accommodate as much as we can.” Strydom said security was their top priority. They were also going to add value to biodiversity, tourism and investment in Durban. They were in negotiations with the Radisson Group to erect Durban’s first Radisson Collection Hotel. At this stage, Strydom said, 208 residential units were on the cards but the number could change, depending on the outcome of the EIA. During the EIA session, various specialists made submissions, including traffic expert Mohamed Kajee, who said that there were plans to add a single lane to the M4, in both directions. His submission drew a mixture of surprise and excitement from those in the packed auditorium. The possibility of construction work being done in special “buffer zones”, which is a further measure to protect eco-sensitive areas, was a major talking point. Naidoo said: “Buffer zones were created to protect coastal dunes, wetlands and the forest area. Because of eco-sensitivity, nothing will happen there.” Strydom said: “I assured them, on my life, we would not develop within buffer lines.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE