DURBAN - THE illicit tobacco trade continues to thrive in KwaZulu-Natal, with more than 65% of traders in the province stocking illegal cigarettes. This was revealed by an Ipsos study of South Africa’s illegal tobacco industry. The results, released on Thursday, revealed that a Zimbabwean brand of cigarettes named Pacific topped the list of illicit brands in KZN. The study, commissioned by the Tobacco Institute of SA (Tisa), highlighted that illegal cigarettes were sold for as little as R5 a pack and were available at more than 100000 shops across the country. It said that if a smoker wasn’t paying at least R17.85 a pack of cigarettes, the pack was probably illegal. The illegal market experienced explosive growth between 2014 and 2017 after the SA Revenue Service (Sars), under suspended commissioner Tom Moyane, ordered that investigations and the inspection of cigarette factories be stopped. It was established that the products of just one manufacturer, the Gold Leaf Tobacco Company (GLTC), accounted for 75% of the illegal trade - this despite GLTC’s cigarettes being made in a local factory officially licensed by Sars. “Incredibly, one of GLTC’s brands, RG, is now the second-biggest seller overall, retailing for an average of just R10.50 a pack,” the report read. The report revealed that in the illegal tobacco trade, RG was followed by Savannah, also from GLTC, Caesar from Best Tobacco Company, and Sharp, also from GLTC. Tisa chairperson Francois van der Merwe said those behind the illegal tobacco trade were raking in more than R5billion a year. “The loss to taxpayers is high - almost R600million a month or R7billion this year. “The result is that South Africa now has the cheapest first smoke in the world, at 50c for an illicit loose cigarette, easily affordable and widely available even to children, compromising the government’s efforts to reduce the incidence of smoking,” said Van der Merwe. He said that the legal tobacco trade supported more than 108000 jobs, including those of 8000 to 10000 farmworkers, all of which would be destroyed unless the government took decisive steps to eradicate illicit tobacco. “The illicit trade is operated by known manufacturers, licensed by Sars, and refuses to pay taxes. “The taxman could put an end to this within a month,” said Van der Merwe. As a short-term solution, Van der Merwe proposed that Sars agents be placed in all factories to ensure all production was declared and duties paid, as had been done in the past. “We stand ready to assist and co-operate with Sars to rid the country of illicit operators,” he said. The Gold Leaf Tobacco Company had not responded by the time of going to print. SUNDAY TRIBUNE