DURBAN - ZANDILE Gumede will not go down without a fight. There is speculation that her mayoral tenure could be cut short if she does not remain ANC chairperson for the eThekwini region when the party holds its seventh elective conference in December. Gumede told the Sunday Tribune she would accept nomination for the position from the ANC branches. But insiders say the tide has turned against her as those who supported her have switched their loyalty to the current regional secretary, Bheki Ntuli. Ntuli has been touted as the next chairperson for the region, the ANC’s biggest, and by implication the next mayor of eThekwini with its R45billion budget. Gumede’s term expires in 2021. It is believed her change of fortune was precipitated by her support for former provincial secretary Super Zuma, who vied for the full-time position of secretary during the KZN elective conference held last week at the Durban University of Technology. Zuma lost to Mdumiseni Ntuli, who was largely backed by the ANC Youth League. Gumede would neither admit to nor deny being among the Zuma supporters. She said that was an internal matter not for public consumption. “We are focusing on the newly elected leadership and we have full confidence in our chairperson, Sihle Zikalala and secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli,” she said. Gumede, who made history by becoming the first woman mayor of eThekwini, said she enjoyed the support of the newly elected ANC leadership in KZN. There was also speculation that Zuma would be deployed to the provincial legislature. SACP secretary Themba Mthembu said they had lost confidence in Gumede as she had been mired in controversy since taking over from James Nxumalo in 2016. On the alleged controversies, Gumede retaliated, saying they were part of a ploy to remove her from the mayoral position. “Fortunately, the ANC don’t take decisions based on allegations. There are due processes that are followed before any decision can be taken,” she said. Gumede recently drew a barrage of criticism after the Sunday Tribune reported on Thabisile Ncayiyane, described as “the mayor’s helper”, who was employed allegedly through an unofficial process and took home a salary of R50000 a month. This week, business forum Amadelangokubona accused Gumede of preaching the ANC’s policy of radical economic transformation but not implementing it. Another ANC councillor said for the sake of unity the party might leave Gumede as mayor until next year’s general elections passed before the axe falls on her. “Everybody is taking the unity call very seriously ahead of the elections. But things will get messy after the elections. “You will see cabinet reshuffles happening. There will be no two centres of power in eThekwini, the person who will emerge in December will be installed as mayor. I’m sure you have noticed the trend from former president Thabo Mbeki to Jacob Zuma.” The Sunday Tribune reported in April last year about the strained relationship between Gumede and Ntuli. The report was disputed by Gumede and the ANC’s provincial executive committee,which was led by chairperson Sihle Zikalala. This was before the Pietermaritzburg High Court gave an order for its disbandment. Last week Zikalala was re-elected to the same position. SUNDAY TRIBUNE