DURBAN - PUBLIC Works Minister Thulas Nxesi has admitted there were flaws in the recruitment of Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) participants, after allegations of corruption. In March, the Sunday Tribune reported how some senior officials within the eThekwini Municipality had filled EPWP vacancies with ghost workers who were paid more than R1.2 million for work they never did. This was exposed in a leaked report by the city’s integrity and investigation unit. Nxesi and deputy minister Jeremy Cronin said the challenges prompted the department to review its recruitment process. This week, it launched the programme’s new recruitment guidelines in Port Shepstone to curb corruption. The same guidelines will be applied across municipalities as opposed to previously, when they differed. The new guidelines include open advertisement of the programme, and allowing equal access to opportunities for all in the community. “The intention here is to guide the communities, councillors and municipalities that they must ensure the programme is done in a fair and transparent manner. Everybody must be able to see what are the criteria that were used to select participants,” he said, adding there were people who were employed based on political affiliations and relationships with officials. “The abuse of recruitment of EPWP participants for narrow political scores is unethical and unacceptable regardless of political affiliation. We lost focus and objectives, which is providing opportunities and skills for the young and unemployed people in our communities.” Cronin encouraged the public to report corruption and manipulation of the recruitment processes. “Where there is corruption, it is a terrible blow to the reputation of a good programme. It creates an impression that all of it is like this, which is not the case. But we are pleased the media is picking up on these things, and we must not try to cover it up.” Since the programme was established five years ago, it has provided work for up to 3.5 million young people, and Public Works hopes to achieve its target of 6 million by next year. SUNDAY TRIBUNE