DURBAN - Outdoor toilets costing millions of rand built for Amaoti residents by eThekwini Municipality over a year ago have been vandalised and remain unused. Some residents also say that building the toilets was unnecessary as most already had them in their homes. They claim they were not consulted prior to the project and have pleaded with the municipality to rather maintain the road and provide houses to the needy. When City Watch visited this week, more than 10 double-set outdoor toilets stood unused. Most had no running water while others had been vandalised. Doors had been removed, and some neighbours said the array of toilet blocks served as a haven for criminals. Ntombenhle Zulu said while the municipality had employed local people to work as caretakers for the toilets, providing them with uniforms and cleaning chemicals, they had yet to start work. “And as much as we may talk about access to basic services, just having a toilet is not enough. If there isn’t someone who can maintain the facilities or they are unused, they will fall apart,” said Zulu. “How often do toilets, built with the best intentions, end up abandoned or unused? It was clear there was no need for these toilets. We already have toilets in our homes. We need roads and some people need houses,” added Zulu. Another resident who asked not to be named, claimed to have signed the contract as a caretaker last June, hoping she would start work soon afterwards. But she is still waiting to get the go-ahead. She said some employees had received toilet paper and cleaning equipment but they have not been used at the public toilets. “There are other pressing needs in this area which could have been prioritised if the city cares about us,” said the resident. DA spokesperson on the Human Settlement and Infrastructure Committee, Sthembiso Ngema, said it was shocking that while thousands of people living in the informal settlement were in dire need of toilets, the city had built them where they were not needed. “This was wasteful expenditure considering that the city spends almost R1million to build a single block of toilets. We suspect that this was a plan to use city coffers with an intention to benefit certain individuals. “The road is very bad in this area and some people still need proper houses. “We will take further action to have this matter investigated,” said Ngema. SUNDAY TRIBUNE