They're a cut above the rest; kings, presidents and commoners alike make no beef about it. Large and wide spread horns and colourful coats are their distinguishing traits but their ability to thrive in tough African climates sets the ankole breed of cattle apart. At the tail end of a TV interview on pressing political matters earlier this week, President Cyril Ramaphosa gave viewers something to chew on when he spoke glowingly about ankole cattle. He enthused about ankole meat having a low cholesterol content and their ability to produce a large quantity of milk. Ramaphosa is the pioneering local breeder of ankole cattle that are indigenous to Uganda. Such is his love for the horned-beasts that he even wrote a book about them, Cattle of the Ages, which was released last year. The overall appeal of ankole cattle has also caught the attention of the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. Khaye Nkwanyana, spokesperson for the department, said: “We did know about this breed previously but we have since learnt that it is a strong breed that can survive in drought conditions. “It is even tougher than the local Nguni cattle. Interest is growing and people have been asking about it. I agree with the president about ankole’s strong characteristics, he knows them. He also gifted King Goodwill Zwelithini with a few last year.” Doctor Mandla Buthelezi, vice president of the National African Farmers' Union, said it would be a good idea to introduce ankole cattle to the rural communities of KZN. “The Nguni breed of cattle is dying because youngsters don’t have the skills to breed cattle anymore. This breed would be perfect for our needs because food security is a challenge these days,” Buthelezi said. But Buthelezi and others must wait a while before they could feed on ankole meat, according to Kobus Rall, an animal scientist. Rall is also the general manager of Ramaphosa’s Ntaba Nyoni farm in the Mpumalanga province. “At the moment the ankole breed is in a herd building phase in South Africa. There is not much ankole meat available in the market yet, but the supply of the low cholesterol meat looks promising for the future. The price per kg of the meat will definitely be more expensive than other beef,’’ said Rall. He confirmed that ankole cattle were very adaptable to different veld types. “What is most incredible about these animals is that they also react very well to high energy rations in a feedlot situation, especially when crossed with other beef breeds. "They are already spread in small numbers all over the country, but well adapted everywhere. “The cooling system through the horns also add to their adaptability, especially in warm areas. Blood flow through the hollow horns where it cools down, before flowing back to the body,” Rall explained. Ramaphosa’s love affair with this breed of cattle began in 2004 when he visited Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni, who presently owns about 5000 ankole cattle. He tried to bring some of the cattle Museveni sold him to South Africa but local authorities blocked him fearing the proliferation of Ugandan animal diseases in the country. Ramaphosa enlisted the services of Morne de la Rey, a vet and director of Embryo Plus, a company that specialised in embryo flushing and transfers from donors to surrogates. The 43 cows that were bought from Museveni were moved to Embryo Plus’ Kenyan quarantine station. Ankole embryos which were artificially inseminated were then ferried to South Africa and local cows were used as surrogates. “It was a long and hard road. One must remember that Ramaphosa was not president at the time, so he received no preferential treatment,” revealed Dr de la Rey. “We were so excited on many levels. The success of having at last the first calves born in SA, having moved a breed from one country to another without moving one live animal and the prospects it holds for the future for cattle farming.” Dr de la Rey also confirmed that ankole cattle were very hardy, disease tolerant and fertile. SUNDAY TRIBUNE