DURBAN - The goodness of local farmers and businessmen is what 67 elderly residents of the Elonwabeni Old Age Home in Kokstad rely on for their survival. This in spite of the of the R2.27m funding from KZN Social Development Department  during the 2016/17 term. And the resident’s of  Elonwabeni, one of whom is 100 years old, have been forced to tough it out this winter because the facility was without hot water. “Where is the money being spent,” asked the DA MPL, Sharon Hoosen, who is the party’s KZN spokesperson on social development. “Surely the MEC, Weziwe Thusi, is aware of the problems at the home and has done nothing to alleviate them because we heard she visited in January and again last week,” said Hoosen. She led an oversight visit to the facility in Kokstad, on Tuesday. However, the department’s spokesperson, Ncumisa Ndelu denied MEC Thusi had failed to act. Ndelu confirmed that were some serious challenges at the home, but they were doing “everything humanly possible to achieve solutions”. Hoosen said: “The last meal supplied at the home was breakfast on Friday, since then the elderly have been completely reliant on the kindness of others,” said Hoosen. The walkabout, according to Hoosen, also revealed that the home’s toilets were not in a good working condition and that staff at the facility were forced to work in trying conditions. Hoosen said: “It’s the middle of winter and the elderly are currently forced to bath with cold water We also learned that concerned residents tried to intervene and called various meetings, earlier this year. At one meeting, they suggested to the department that a new board to oversee the facility be installed, along with a new manager.” But Ndelu said the MEC has been engaging with family of residents and the community since the beginning of the year to find a way forward. “The MEC has been working closely with all the necessary roleplayers and gives serious consideration to what they are saying,” said Ndelu. She said at a recent meeting with various stakeholders, a resolution was taken that the residents be moved to alternate facilities, temporarily, while the problems at Elonwabeni got addressed. “On Monday, a team was sent there to do the relocation, but family of the elderly and community members resisted the move. “The standoff was tense because family and others were concerned that they might not have easy access to the elderly once they were moved. “Concerned family and community also expressed issues of mistrust. Therefore, we did not enforce the move,” Ndelu revealed. She said it then became apparent that the resolution that was taken had fallen away. “We have since resolved that the department will continue to engage to resolve issues at the home. And our investigations into the misuse of the facility’s funds will also continue. “We are handling the situation with much care because the wellbeing of the elderly people is a very serious and sensitive issue,” Ndelu said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE