WITH the launch of the MeerKAT telescope this week, South Africa has the clearest view yet of the Milky Lane, central to our galaxy. But there are few South Africans able to work around these mega machines. Durban astronomers have urged kids to get their head in the stars, as the space industry here is booming, with job opportunities in abundance. The University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Astrophysics and Cosmology Research Unit (ACRU) hosted the National Astronomy Workshop last week for over 60 young science and engineering students about what lays ahead for them in the space industry, and the funding that lies waiting for them to bite on. Currently, the world’s largest radio telescope, the Space Kilometre Array (SKA) is being built, partly in South Africa’s Karoo region and a similar semi-desert area in Australia.     We, together with SARAO (South African Radio Astronomy Observatory), are hosting a workshop for science undergraduate students from throughout South Africa. The goal of the workshop is to encourage students to study Masters and PhD degrees in astronomy. Here is feedback from some of the students. #UGWorkshop2018HCD A post shared by  Astrophysics and Cosmology (@acru_durban) on Jul 3, 2018 at 11:52am PDT Thousands of dishes in these areas will host low and high frequency antennas through which astronomers will closely monitor what lies beyond the sky, better than with any other radio telescope in the world. ACRU director, Professor Sunil Maharaj, said when SKA was initially set up, mostly workers from science-rich countries were pulled in to South Africa to get the ball rolling. “Historically, astronomy was not a major subject in South Africa. It wasn’t a subject pushed at school or seen as a career option as was medicine or law. But there are huge job prospects now in this industry with a massive shortfall of astronomers,” he said. Several years ago, ACRU introduced an undergraduate degree in astronomy at UKZN. Now more corporate companies are investing their bucks space exploration and the students who are ready for take-off. Said Maharaj: “There are many jobs around SKA, including the engineering and maintenance of the telescope, the scientists who operate various parts of the telescope, and so on.” A strong knowledge, and degree of course, in the math and science field would get you a ticket to study astronomy. Although it’s not cheap, government institutions are prepared to spend. “We had the Department of Science and Technology, the National Research Foundation and the South African Radio Astronomy Observatory (SARAO) at the conference to tell students about funding opportunities for research, and we also taught students how to how to put together a science research paper,” said Maharaj. SARAO is heading the SKA project. The MeerKAT, a precursor instrument for the SKA telescope, was an example of the benefits of “home-grown talent”.
SKA Organisation director-general, Professor Phil Diamond said: “Using home-grown talent, innovation, and ambition our South African colleagues have created MeerKAT, a proudly South African instrument.” The 64-dish instrument provides the clearest view that the world has ever had of galaxies far, far away, including the Milky Lane.
Maharaj said interests in the stars start at a young age, and must be encouraged. He added: “At a school level we need to capture the imagination of kids. When they look up at the sky and the stars and wonder what’s out there, we need to use astronomy as a vehicle to develop their interest and help them explore the world.” ACRU can be contacted via their website www. acru.ukzn.ac.za SUNDAY TRIBUNE