Phoenix - Twenty-two years in prison is not sufficient punishment for a Phoenix man who raped his mother, activists have said. “You are supposed to respect your mother more than anyone else in this world. She brought you into this world; she gave you life,” said Beverley Motlabani from the KwaZulu-Natal Network on Violence Against Women. The 30-year-old man, who cannot be named to protect the identity of his mother who is a rape survivor, was convicted and sentenced in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. He was arrested in 2016 when his mother, then 53, reported the harrowing incident to police. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said in March 2016 the woman was alone in her Phoenix home with her son when he raped her. It had not been the first time. A year earlier, the son approached his mother while she was bathing. “The victim was alone at home in the bath. The accused told her he wanted to have sexual intercourse with her. He kicked the bathroom door. The victim refused, telling him she was his mother. He went on to assault and rape her,” Zwane said. This was revealed at the trial. It emerged in court that when the woman reported the first incident to relatives, her son denied the accusations. Zwane said the woman told the court she feared for her life because her son was a violent man. Psychologist, Adele Munsami, could not comment directly on this case. She said: "In many cases of rape and sexual assault, the perpetrator is known to the victim. This creates a false sense of safety for the victim, by lowering the victims fight or flight instincts, especially in the home environment. Perpetrators with emotional suppression, for example anger, sexual frustration or feelings of emasculation, may try to alleviate these emotions by preying on someone they perceive to be an easy target, often younger girls or older women, but this is not limited to these vulnerable groups. The act of alleviating these emotions through sexually assault however is a more complex issue and would require further investigation." But Motlabani said trying to understand why a person raped someone was like trying to find excuses for committing the crime. “Some expect a person who is raped to come out with scars and scratches, but when a person is penetrated without consent, that leaves the deepest of scars and wounds,” she said. She said the punishment of rapists varied, which was unfair to victims. Most were sentenced to at least 25 years behind bars. “It is also about the survivor’s loss of self-respect that she must now recover. What does 22 years behind bars mean to her?” said Motlabani. The man’s sentence came in the run-up to Women’s Month, August, which will be marked by marches nationwide. The “My body is not your crime scene” slogan is making its way across social media as marches have been planned across the country to protest against gender-based violence. In Durban, a demonstration is planned for Currie’s Fountain from 9am to the city hall on August 1. Motlabani called on women to mobilise “as a force to be reckoned with” against gender-based violence. See Facebook for details of the Total Shutdown march. SUNDAY TRIBUNE