Durban - Fresh from the elective conference, the newly elected ANC KwaZulu-Natal leadership has embarked on a drive to unite party members in the province and kick off campaigning for next year’s general elections. Sihle Zikalala, re-elected as provincial chairperson, said the leaders would offer an olive branch to ANC members who might be unhappy with some issues. He said this was to cement unity in the party and foster the renewal in it, which President Cyril Ramaphosa had been calling for since being elected president of the party in December. “We will make sure that we integrate all the members of the ANC, particularly those who might have some issues that are unresolved. We want to go to the election as united as possible, particularly here in the province,” said Zikalala. Ramaphosa told delegates at the KZN elective conference last week that he was gunning for 15 million votes in next year’s elections. In the previous general election, in 2014, the ANC bagged 11 million votes. Members of the ANC in KZN, the province with the highest number of party members, have been divided between “us” and “them” factions, and the ANC will have to continue with its upward trajectory in the elections for Ramaphosa’s target to be met. Zikalala was confident the ANC would fare well in the elections, as in previous years. The ANC’s provincial executive committee met yesterday and among the issues discussed was the election strategy. Zikalala said a down-up approach would form part of their strategy, which would be led by branches, rather than the top-down approach, which was usually spearheaded by the leadership. “We want every branch and zone to actively participate in the campaigns. We want them to lead our campaigns, not the other way around,” said Zikalala. He said every member of the ANC must focus on mending the fractures in the party sustained in leadership battles. “We will visit all our 11 regions and preach unity.” Zikalala was pleased that there had been no grievances lodged by ANC members following the provincial conference last week. Asked about the ANC members who still referred to former president Jacob Zuma as their president, Zikalala urged them to respect the present leadership in Luthuli House, led by Ramaphosa. “Former president Jacob Zuma is not in a leadership position anymore; we support him because he needs it during this difficult time,” he said. Zikalala, MEC for Economic Development and Environmental Affairs, was among the ANC leaders who attended Zuma’s court appearance on Friday at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Zuma is facing charges of corruption, fraud, racketeering and money-laundering related to the multi- billion-rand arms deal. SUNDAY TRIBUNE