Durban - KwaZulu-Natal is open for business and is eager to play its part in the community of BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), acting premier of KZN, Sihle Zikalala said. Speaking at the BRICS Business Council at Durban’s Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre on Sunday during a session on investment opportunities, Zikalala said KZN has developed a One Stop Shop which is conveniently located in Durban as an easy point of entry for potential investors. “The One Stop Shop is geared to assist business people with the all the necessary support to set up business in our province and to ensure the elimination of red-tape in getting their business started,” Zikalala said. With two of South Africa’s Special Economic Zones at Dube Trade Port and the Richards Bay Industrial Development Zone, Zikalala said the province offers an attractive corporate tax regime that ensures greater value for investors. He pointed out that the province had also embarked on an ambitious Aerotropolis development plan - the Dube Trade Port and King Shaka International Airport. “We are creating a nucleus of an airport city that leverages integrated air services, cargo handling, and logistics together with a manufacturing footprint to ensure fast and easy access for goods into the rest of South Africa, Africa and the world. The province’s airline route development plan has ensured direct connections into Africa and the world including Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and – as of October 2018 – direct connections to London,” Zikalala said. Earlier in the morning, Zikalala had met with the 25 council members of BRICS along with business leaders from the five BRICS countries at a closed session meeting. Hundreds of delegates converged on Durban at the weekend for the BRICS Business Summit which is chaired by Dr Iqbal Survé, the executive chairman of the Sekunjalo Group and Independent Media. South Africa is the official host of the 10th annual BRICS Summit and the official summit will take place in Johannesburg. The theme of the summit is “BRICS in Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity in the 4th Industrial Revolution”. Zikalala said the annual meeting has generated optimism and brought hope to millions of people. He said that a few years ago KZN began an “infrastructure revolution” with overall government infrastructure expenditure exceeds R200 billion over the next seven years. “The infrastructure development programme involves road construction, air-freight, rail, provision of water and sanitation, services, electrification and a major focus on the maritime industry. We are encouraging partnerships between the public and the private sectors to maximize investments and grow the economy together using the infrastructure as a catalyst,” he said. In addition, Zikalala said that as KZN was strategically located along the ocean, the provincial government was focusing on the oceans economy for added growth. “We wish to indicate that the Oil and Gas industry presents many opportunities for partnerships in this province. The Richards Bay Industrial Development Zones which is located in the Port of Richards Bay is being developed as a site and an anchor for energy infrastructure – especially gas,” he said. As part of the growth opportunities, Zikalala said that investors should not ignore local municipalities which are hoped will “become dynamic engines of economic development”. “We envision here a new South Africa where there are equal opportunities for success. We are a government focused on the elimination of all the root causes of poverty and under-development. We are inviting you to join us on a journey to create an equitable and prosperous country,” he told the delegates. Dr Survé said that the BRICS Business Council meeting in Durban was the biggest council meeting in the history of BRICS which was a testimony to the success of five country grouping. He said there was a great partnership between BRICS Business Council and the KwaZulu-Natal government. Daily News