A DURBAN teenager is on his way to being featured in the International Journal of Health Sciences and Research. Sailin Vadivelu, 15, was among Star College pupils who scooped medals for their designs at this year’s International Genius Olympiad at a New York university. The annual competition brings whizz kids from across the world to showcase, and be recognised for, their work in the science, maths and art fields. The Grade 10 pupil, the youngest member in the team, won silver for his design to save electricity and relieve the country of its load shedding bout. “I designed an ultrasound sensor that would be placed on street light poles. When a car is about to pass, this will trigger the sensor for the light to turn on. This would save thousands of rand per month regarding the municipal electricity bill,” he said. Sailin has since been invited to enter his design into the international journal, and is hoping to advance the code of his design to increase its affordability so it can be used at government level. The teenager, hoping to study medicine, has been balancing developing his design, school work and an avid spiritual life, which he believes is important along the road to success. “You need to have a timetable, and be disciplined to follow that timetable. Remember, God is always on your side,” he said. At the head of his team were Grade 11 pupils Yashlin Odayar and Ruveshan Chetty, both 16, who found that bacteria in stagnant water may be another answer to solving our electricity woes. “We found that there was a lack of electricity in rural areas, but also that these areas were abundant in stagnant dams, which had certain bacteria. We designed our microbial fuel cell, which has previously been used in Holland, to work in South African dams,” said Ruveshan. His partner, Yashlin said: “The announcers called the gold medallists last and we were so nervous. When they called our names and brought the South African flag on stage, we felt proud to be representing our country.” Their gold medal came with tech goodies and an invitation to apply for a scholarship at the State of New York University. Yashlin hopes to study astrophysics and Ruvashan is aiming for actuarial science. SUNDAY TRIBUNE