CANADIAN YouTube sensation, Lilly Singh, known by her YouTube channel name 'IISuperwomanII' is indulging in South African culture as she tours the country on outreach programmes. The 29-year-old went down for Vosha after learning about Gqom music. Singh who currently lives in Los Angeles, USA, has a collective 15 million followers on her YouTube main and vlog channels on which she shares videos; some humorous, others inspirational, and many urging youth to "hustle harder every day". She arrived in South Africa, with actress Charlize Theron, at the start of the week to celebrate Mandela Day, and listen to the annual Nelson Mandela Memorial Lecture by former US president Barack Obama in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Following the lecture, Singh was introduced to several community organisations in Johannesburg by the Charlize Theron Africa Outreach Programme which advocates for HIV and AIDS awareness in poverty-stricken areas among other social development issues.     @iisuperwomanii doing what she does best. sharing her super powers. @choma_mag @kylekuhns A post shared by  CTAOP (@ctaop) on Jul 19, 2018 at 3:22pm PDT On Wednesday she visited the Choma Magazine Cafe in Johannesburg, which was described by Theron as an invaluable space in South African communities where young women and girls feel safe - a space that cannot be underestimated. At the Cafe, young girls met the star and learned about overcoming everyday challenges. In return, they taught her Vosho. In a video, posted on Singh's vlog channel, she can be seen doing Gwara Gwara, a popular dance by Durban DJ Bongs, dropping low for a Vosho. Watch   A meet and greet for the Singh's fans is expected to be hosted on Monday in Johannesburg towards the end of the tour. On Thursday and Friday Singh and Theron were in Durban at the Oyster Box Hotel, before they visited the Dlalanathi organisation in Pietermaritzburg, beneficiaries of the Outreach programme. The pair were last spotted at the Eastern Cape for a similar programme.  Visit the Charlize Theron Africa Outreach Project here.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE