DURBAN - ALMOST five years after the collapse of the Tongaat Mall, families of victims are still awaiting closure. Construction workers Zwelibanzi Masuku, 51, and bricklayer Zakithi Nxumalo, 28, died and 49 others were injured when a section of the mall collapsed in November 2013. Family this week told the Sunday Tribune the disaster had drastically changed their lives, yet the responsible property developers, Rectangle Property Investments (RPI) and Gralio Precasts, had yet to be brought to account. RPI’s sole director is businessman Jay Singh’s son, Ravi Jagadasan. Gralio Precast lists Jagadasan and his stepmother, Shireen Annamalay, as directors. Jagadasan previously said his father was Gralio’s chief executive and in charge of construction of the mall. In May 2016, Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant said the department’s report on the collapse would be handed to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). The department’s investigation found contraventions of the Occupational and Safety Act and construction regulations. Piles for some of the columns had been overloaded and under-designed. The lack of structural integrity of a beam allegedly triggered the collapse. Lack of supervision and failure to appoint a competent supervisor were also cited. Further, the department found there was a lack of knowledge to build the complex structure. Cement used was reportedly substandard. It was imported from Pakistan and did not meet SA Bureau of Standards requirements. The construction team also allegedly failed to work from architect’s drawings. Yesterday, Teboho Thejane, the department’s spokesperson, said the matter was in the NPA’s hands. “As soon as section 32 was conducted (the assessment and investigation into the collapse), a report was officially handed over to the NPA for a decision (to prosecute or not). This matter is closed on our side. As for injuries on duty, the compensation fund kicked in immediately,” Thejane said. This week, the KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecutions advocate Moipone Noko said it had taken nine months for a panel of experts from the Department of Labour to compile its report. “This, it is submitted, is an indication of the complexity of the case and the volume of the evidence received,” said Noko. She said the evidence arising is objectively outside the customary ambit of criminal investigations and accordingly cannot be compared with matters ordinarily referred to the NPA for decision. “In this regard, the process is regrettably not as ‘speedy’ as one could wish for.” Regarding compensation, Noko added: “It is our view that the compensation is not within the jurisdiction of the NPA for the purposes of the decision at present.” On Wednesday, Zakithi’s mother, 66-year-old Phumzile Nxumalo, said her daughter’s death was an “open wound that has not yet healed”. She said her heart sank at the department’s failure to enforce the law by prosecuting people responsible. Nxumalo said a monthly R1200 compensation she received from the department was not enough to look after her three grandchildren. “When I see (journalists) entering my house I feel like throwing a pot of boiling water on them because none of this is helping us,” said Nxumalo. Asked about the investigation, Nxumalo said: “The case has stalled and officials have kept quiet on the matter while Singh is enjoying his millions with his family. Ours is to bear the pain of losing loved ones.” Nxumalo said after Zakithi’s death her grandchildren’s support grant was stopped by the SA Social Security Agency. Flanked by her grandchildren inside her modest four-roomed home, she said nine family members had depended on her old pension grant. She suffers from diabetes. “If I die today I will die painfully knowing that her children will suffer without financial support to see them through to their adult life,” she said. Nxumalo said in December 2015 she went to Gralio to see if they could help. They said they would get back to her once they’ve discussed it but she has not heard from them since. Social Development spokesperson Ncumisa Ndelu said Sassa was correct to cut the grant because the grandmother now qualifies for a foster care grant. “Our social workers will get in touch with the family and assist in applying for the grant,” Ndelu said. Theodora Maxhakana, sister of Masuku, said his family had also not received support from either the department nor Gralio. Masuku’s wife died in 2008 and his children were orphaned when that slab buried him, she said. “It’s been hard on the family, especially his daughters, because they are still in school.” Maxhakana, who waited at the site for four days before Masuku’s body was found, said her nieces were now her responsibility. Gralio manager Paul Rush said he was perturbed that the families were raising these complaints so long after the matter had been dealt with by the authorities. “I am surprised. What purpose will this serve because, as I understand it, these matters were resolved.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE