DURBAN - As President Cyril Ramaphosa aims to rake in 15 million votes in 2019’s general elections, he pins his hopes on the newly-elected ANC leadership in KwaZulu-Natal. The ANC received 11 million votes during  2014 general elections. “Now we have a responsibility to go out and get 15 million South Africans to support the ANC. “The ANC is going to force you to talk to a person you don’t like and the one you hate, to work with the people you never thought you will be able to work with, and people we differ with and with comrades you know that basically you don’t like each other,” said Ramaphosa. This was similar to the message from party secretary-general Ace Magashule during his address on Thursday. While analysts say Ramaphosa was being too ambitious, they believe that faction-divided KZN is on the mend. The eighth ANC KZN conference finally sat this weekend at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) after months of postponements and a court interdict. The KZN leadership is dubbed a zebra leadership, as it included leaders who supported Ramaphosa and Minister In The Presidency Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma ahead of the December conference. The conference, which was attended by 1 770 delegates from the 11 ANC regions in KZN, saw Sihle Zikalala retaining his position as chairperson unopposed. Michael Mabuyakhulu, who supported Ramaphosa ahead of the December conference, made a comeback from the political wilderness as deputy chair. He previously served as ANC treasurer and MEC for Economic Development before he was axed in 2016 by the then ANC’s Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) led by Zikalala. His presence in the top five is seen as a sign of unity. But Mabuyakhulu takes his new role with a cloud hanging over his head. He is being investigated for a R28 million music festival in 2012 that did not take place. Willies Mchunu, who previously served as deputy chairperson in the nullified provincial leadership failed to secure enough votes to retain his position.  This is seen as a path to retirement for the 70-year-old ailing politician. Willies Mchunu will stay on as premier, a post he held from 2016 when former premier, Senzo Mchunu, was sacked. The previous leadership was disbanded after the Pietermaritzburg High Court in September last year ruled in favour of disgruntled members who wanted the 2015 conference to be nullified. Super Zuma, who held the full-time position of secretary, was beaten by his ally and former party spokesperson, Mdumiseni Ntuli. This leaves Zuma, a strong Jacob Zuma defender, jobless. Harry Gwala mayor, Mluleki Ndobe, who was the deputy secretary in the nullified leadership, also failed to make the cut. He was defeated by regional secretary of Ukhahlamba region, Sipho Hlomuka. Nomusa Dube-Ncube retained her position as treasurer unopposed.  She also serves as the MEC for Corporate Governance and Traditional Affairs. Ramaphosa begged KZN, which is the ANC’s biggest province by numbers, to unite speedily ahead of next year’s election. However, it remains to be seen whether unity would prevail or the supporters of the defeated candidates will fight back. Zikalala said: “We have committed ourselves that we are not here for one-sided leadership, but we must emerge with the leadership that will be embraced by all of us. There are no winners and no losers.” Ramaphosa issued a warning to the delegates, saying no one should go to nullify any conference. Zikalala and Ramaphosa appealed to ANC members to work together in the lead-up to the election. It is to be seen whether ANC members would heed this call as the party is set to accelerate its election thrust. However, political analyst Thabani Khumalo said the land issue would be a litmus test for the ANC. This is as King Goodwill Zwelithini warned of a war should the government implement  recommendations of a high-level panel to repeal  the Ingonyama Trust Act. Professor Bheki Mngomezulu, lecturer at the University of Western Cape, agreed the party’s support would plummet if it implements the panel’s recommendations. Expropriation of land without compensation was adopted during the ANC’s December conference. Since then, a tug-of-war has ensued between those in support of and those against it. Public hearings about the policy were held in KZN this week. SUNDAY TRIBUNE