Durban - About 150 South African students studying medicine in Cuba who were meant to return home this week were left in the lurch due to an air ticket booking bungle. The fourth- and fifth-year students, mostly from Joburg and Limpopo, were expected to arrive home this week for their annual mid-year holiday, as per their agreements with the Department of Health. Instead they were given the run-around by the South African embassy in Cuba, who allegedly told them their flights had not been booked because the person responsible for authorising the flight tickets was on sick leave. The students are part of the Nelson Mandela Fidel Castro Collaboration, which is part of the Cuba-South Africa Medical Training Programme. “The students are extremely saddened by the situation. They were excited to return home to their families after a long time. Some are expected to start their electives training in South Africa, but there is no indication as to when they will come home. Parents are anxious,” said student Kathlyn Motubatsi, a representative for the group. Department of Health spokesperson Popo Maja said the department had transported over a thousand students from Cuba to South Africa in July. “Of these, 698 were fifth-year students returning to South Africa to complete their studies, while the others were at different years of study,” Maja said. “The logistics and timing of flights with the completion of exams for the latter group posed a challenge,” he said. Maja said none of the students were “stranded” as the South African embassy in Cuba had taken good care of them. “The department has scheduled a flight to collect the balance of the students coming through for their holidays,” said Maja. Meanwhile, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health welcomed a group of 96 returning SA-Cuba medical students earlier this month. On Wednesday, the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) will welcome the same medical students who returned home after five years. The students will continue and complete their final year of studies and training at the UKZN Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE