DURBAN - Babes Wodumo’s father has spoken out for the first time on allegations that his chart- topping daughter was allegedly abused by her ex-lover, fellow musician Mampintsha. Wodumo’s father, Reverend Welcome Simelane, said: “She is older than 21 now. She is independent and a grown woman, she knows what is wrong or right for her. Even if she was to get married without my knowledge, it doesn’t matter because she makes her own decisions. “As a bishop I always preach about such things. There’s no relationship without problems but it’s up to people to make their own decisions based on what they deem as right. I raised Babes and she is above 21 years old now, she must take a right decision for herself.” Wodumo, whose real name is Bongekile Simelane, was on Metro FM’s The Drive show with Mo Flava and Masechaba Ndlovu on Friday when the claims were made by Ndlovu. Wodumo said very little and nodded as Ndlovu called out Mandla “Mampintsha” Maphumulo for allegedly physically abusing her. Also read: Babes Wodumo confirms Mampintsha split amid abuse allegations “I said I wasn’t going to do this, but Babes, you know, I think it needs to be said because I hate to see a young woman as talented, as smart as you, living in so much fear, Babes Wodumo. Right?”  “You don’t have to answer this question, but we all know. We’ve heard from multiple sources. We’ve witnessed the fact that you have been physically abused by Mampintsha. That he has beaten you in your relationship,” said Ndlovu. Ndlovu alleged Wodumo had sought refuge with one of her friends after she was allegedly beaten, which had resulted in her bleeding through the nose and suffering a broken leg. Wodumo’s new manager, Keke Mokoena, dropped numerous calls made to him by the Sunday Tribune yesterday. In a statement posted on his Facebook page, Mampintsha said: “I am no saint, nor do I plead absolute innocence in the claims made in that interview. I may have overreacted in a couple of incidents during our relationship with her over certain things I will not be comfortable to discuss in the public domain.” Also read: Mampintsha responds to Babes Wodumo abuse allegations Yesterday Ndlovu said on social media that the office of Police Minister Bheki Cele had offered the musician protection. Cele’s spokesperson, Nonkululeko Mbatha could not be reached for comment. A source close to the couple claimed the abuse had begun a long time ago and that her family was aware of it. “He used to beat her even when they had petty arguments. He was controlling and selfish. There was a time when Babes changed her password for Instagram. Mampintsha got angry when he could not log on and beat her,” said the source. “He always got jealous when male fans complimented Babes, yet he also had female fans. He didn’t want her to go out with friends and even controlled the time she had to spend with her family.”On Facebook yesterday, Wodumo’s sister, Nondu Simelane, con- firmed the family was aware of the alleged abuse. “In the past few weeks she (Babes) called me aside and revealed the constant abuse Mampintsha had put her through. I went crazy and even wanted to stab him because I don’t want anyone to hurt my sister, but she asked me to calm down,” read her post. She urged women in abusive relationships to“get out”. SUNDAY TRIBUNE