DURBAN - The elderly woman who was brutally killed at her farmhouse in April, had given a meal to her murderer. This emerged during a moving testimony by Virathapushanam Govender’s daughter, Dr Yuvashnee Govender, who was called by the state prosecutor on Thursday to give evidence that would aggravate the sentence of her mother’s murderers. The body of the 70-year-old woman was found gagged and left behind a bed in her daughter’s room with a pillow over the body, at her Spioenkop farmhouse near OThongathi. Have you read: Farm murderers had been offered food by slain victim Virathapushanam’s 72-year-old husband, Steve Govender, managed to escape death by playing dead when the attackers returned to check on him. Smangaliso Michael Mayela, 21, Nkosinathi Ngcobo, 20, and Odwa Zide, 21, were convicted and sentenced to 40 years imprisonment on a raft of charges, including murder, by Magistrate Anand Maharaj on Thursday. They have each been sentenced to 40 years imprisonment collectively on charges of murder, attempted murder, robbery under aggravated circumstances and possession of an unlicensed firearm. Maharaj said he had taken both mitigating and aggravating factors into consideration when deciding on the sentence, including the testimony by Dr Govender. Dr Govender said her mother, who was known as Vee, was not just a mom who cooked the most delicious meals, but a sterling community member. Also read: Three plead guilty to Tongaat farm murder Tongaat farmer plays dead and survives The Govenders were a humble couple who sold vegetables they farmed at the oThongathi market, she said. “My mother was an honest, God-fearing individual. Even when the poor approached her she would give them extra vegetables or lower the prices. We had a poverty stricken childhood. Despite our poverty, when I was young, my mother found a purse full of money at a shop, and immediately took it to the counter. The owner of the purse offered her a reward but she refused to take it,” she said. Dr Govender said her father, who identified the convicted murderers during an identity parade, remembered that one of them had been given a meal by her mother. Have you read: Farm murderers laugh and smile at 40 year sentence “My parents were defenseless and would have pleaded for their lives. They would have pleaded for their lives. They would have told them (attackers) to take everything but just leave us alone. These are ruthless criminal who had clear intentions. They went to check my father's pulse to make sure he had died so he wouldn't identify them,” she said. It was revealed in court that during the attack, Ngcobo said he was hungry and went to Govender’s kitchen to eat food before she was murdered, and they fled. “It breaks my heart that my mum and dad were subject to this heinous crime. They robbed us of a mother, they robbed my father of his wife,” she said.  The funeral was said to have drawn hundreds of mourners as Virathapushanam was well-known in oThongathi. ALSO READ: Farm worker and accomplices get 40 years for KZN farm attack Man nabbed for oThongathi farm attack Meanwhile, during mitigation, private attorney Zanele Cele revealed the trio had a minimal level of education. Ngcobo left school in Grade 2 while Zide and Mayela left school at Grade 7 and 10 respectively. The trio lived at an informal settlement at OThongathi at the time of the incident. “They dropped out of school to fend for themselves (as they were not in the care of their parents). They were street kids without food, and although they were not from the same place they met due to the circumstances they were under,” Cele said. Cele said the trio could be rehabilitated as they had no previous convictions. ALSO READ: Slain farmer to be laid to rest, husband stable Three plead guilty to Tongaat farm murder Maharaj, in sentencing the trio, said they should reflect on their actions. Maharaj commended the police’s provincial organised crimes unit in their swift arrest of the suspect, and said such momentum of police action should be maintained in all cases. SUNDAY TRIBUNE