DURBAN - While the new, rebuilt, cottage at the Lakehaven Child and Youth Care Centre will house 15 children, it pays tribute to the eight who tragically died in an inferno two years ago. On Saturday, the new cottage at the Lakehaven Centre, in Seacow Lake, was unveiled by King Goodwill Zwelithini. It will house 15 orphaned, abused, neglected and abandoned children. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The cottage rebuild was sponsored by the Sibaya Community Trust, of which Durban businessman, Vivian Reddy, is a member of. Reddy said the entire country was shocked by the tragic blaze that claimed the lives of eight precious children. Read: Despair after 8 die in children's home blaze Victims of Lakehaven fire still not laid to rest      The entire country was shocked by the tragic blaze that claimed the lives of eight precious children, says Reddy. #Lavehaven @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/KPwRq6evGc  — Nabeelah Shaikh (@Nabeelah_Shaikh) May 26, 2018   The blaze killed Minenhle Ngcobo, 21; Sibongiseni Nxumalo, 18; John Shusha, 17; Sfundo Ndlovu, 17; Gabriel Mbambo, 11; Ajesh Gangerpasad; 9, Fikisani Chala, 8; and 8-year-old Sandile Duma. Also read: PICS: Children die while asleep in their beds Memorial for boys killed in children’s home blaze Lakehaven fire probe ongoing A plaque at the ‘Garden of Remembrance’, also built and unveiled by Reddy, bears their names. Among the delegates at the event were King Goodwill Zwelithini, Social Development MEC, Weziwe Thusi, and KwaZulu-Natal premier, Willies Mchunu.      Thusi says she will never forget that day in 2016 when the blaze took place. She went to the scene to find eight small bodies on the ground. #Lakehaven @SundayTribuneSA pic.twitter.com/tbw5LPRvgh  — Nabeelah Shaikh (@Nabeelah_Shaikh) May 26, 2018  Mchunu said the death of eight children reminded him of society’s failure to take care of youth.      Mchunu praises Vivian Reddy for funding the cottage rebuild and memorial garden to the end. @SundayTribuneSA #Lakehaven  — Nabeelah Shaikh (@Nabeelah_Shaikh) May 26, 2018   Zwelithini says there are a lot of people living under poverty in South Africa and if we don't fasten our boot straps, there will be something coming. @SundayTribuneSA #Lakehaven  — Nabeelah Shaikh (@Nabeelah_Shaikh) May 26, 2018  SUNDAY TRIBUNE