DURBAN - Queensburgh couple Melisa, 26, and Sean O’Neill, 24, may have Down syndrome but their disability has not stopped them from becoming world-class swimmers. The couple and seven other South African Down syndrome swimmers will participate in the Down Syndrome World Swimming Championships in Canada in July. The championship is hosted annually by the Down Syndrome International Swimming Organisation (DSISO). Of the nine SA swimmers who made the squad, five of them, including O’Neill, are from KwaZulu-Natal.  The three other KZN participants are Karl Hebbelmann, Jennifer Higgins and Hylton Heggie. Melisa is South Africa’s top female Down syndrome swimmer. Even though she has only been swimming for the last four years, she has represented South Africa twice and has scooped three international gold medals. Sean has represented South Africa at seven of the previous eight world championships. Asked why they loved swimming, Melisa responded: “I love the water and I feel like a fish when I am inside. I don’t ever want to come out.” She said she first started swimming to lose weight, but her love for swimming grew. Sean, on the other hand, has been swimming for 19 years. “Swimming makes me feel strong. It gives me a lot of energy,” said Sean. The couple married in 2016 after meeting at a church dance. They train six days a week at the Chelsea Preparatory School pool in Durban North. The biggest challenge for this talented squad is raising enough money to attend the championships. Melisa’s mother, Ann van Bosch, is among those fund-raising for the trip. Van Bosch said one of the biggest trials of raising a child with Down syndrome has been getting the community to accept Melisa despite her intellectual impairment. “I was very young when I had Melisa. Getting her incorporated into society was, for me, the biggest challenge. It’s heartbreaking because even today this discrimination still exists and can be seen in the way that Down syndrome athletes are treated,” said Van Bosch, adding that the swimmers don’t get any financial support from government. Their only hope has been to turn to private organisations and businesses for help. “We, as the parents, have to raise R570000 to send our nine swimmers and four managers to this year’s event. We have made appeals to government in the past but we have never received any positive feedback. Discrimination of athletes and swimmers with disabilities exists because they do not get the same support and treatment even though they may be far better at international events than some of our able-bodied swimmers,” said Van Bosch.  Parents of the swimmers have initiated a Go Fund Me online campaign with the support of the South African Sports Association for the Intellectually Impaired (SASA-II). SASA-II selects the swimming squad that participates in the Down Syndrome World Swimming Championships each year based on world qualifying standards. SASA-II’s national swimming convenor Ina Fowler said the organisation had applied to the national lottery for funding last year, but their application had been rejected. “It’s sad because South Africa participates in each event with great success. On many occasions, we emerged as the top Down syndrome swimming team with our swimmers now holding world records,” said Fowler. The team: The South African team selected for the 2018 Down Syndrome World Swimming Championships comprises: Jennifer Higgins, Rentia Oosthuizen, Minke Janse van Rensburg, Karl Hebbelmann, Jan-Hermann Els, Hannes-Walt de Klerk, Hylton Heggie, Sean O’Neill and Melisa O’Neill. SUNDAY TRIBUNE