Minutes later, Denise, 32, was shot dead at her home, also in oThongathi, by an unknown person, who slipped away into the night, amid the festivity of New Year's Eve. Moodley and her immediate family usually gathered at her Bufflesdale home for a braai to usher in each new year. However, since 2007, the tradition has become a thing of the past. About 7.45pm, a knock on the front door of Denise's flat, situated in the heart of Tongaat’s village, caught her attention. Her husband Kevin, a policeman, usually worked on New Year's Eve, but had been home on that particular day. With Kevin off-duty, Denise and her children decided to bond at home. By responding to the knock on her front door, Denise inadvertently walked into a death trap she would never escape. A lone gunman fired at her from close range. It was not the first time she had been shot by an unidentified gunman. Soon after the birth of her eldest son, Kershin, in 1994, Naidoo was alone when she responded to a knock on the front door of her previous home in Greylands Farm. Naidoo was struck on her hand in the first incident. The bullet that penetrated Naidoo’s nose and exited through the back of her head was what killed her in 2007. Moodley and her family were on the scene minutes later. “We found Denise lying face-down in a pool of blood,” recalled Moodley. That sight still haunts her. “Every day, it flashes through my head.” Naidoo was in a coma for two days, before dying in Entabeni Hospital's intensive care unit. Every time she hears the telephone ring, Moodley is reminded about the call Denise made 30 minutes before being shot. “I was busy with working on my prayer lamp. My husband asked if I wanted to speak Denise. I said no, but promised to call her later that evening. “I never had the opportunity to do so. It's a regret that I've been forced to live with.” Moodley said Denise's flat was located in a busy part of the village. “We still find it hard to believe that nobody saw a thing. “We no longer hold New Year's Eve parties.” Moodley said there were many theories circulating as to why her daughter was killed, and it received widespread media attention. “Denise received an email an hour before her death, which read: ‘You would never see the New Year’. Even with that, police never found the killer. “A woman, who I only knew as Devicka, was arrested shortly after Denise’s death. It was alleged that Devicka was having an extra-marital affair with Kevin and she often threatened Denise. “But Devicka was released shortly thereafter and was never required to make a court appearance." Devicka died six months later, from natural causes. Kevin confirmed the affair with Devicka but denied any involvement in his wife's death. “For over six years, I was regarded as the culprit by police until the Director of Public Prosecutions found no grounds to prosecute me. “I've always maintained police were barking up the wrong tree. I even resigned from the police force because of this,” said Kevin. He is of the view that, had police done thorough investigations, they would have found his wife's killer. Kevin said the face of the shooter has been etched in his head. “That face will never be removed from my memory. “All police did was take a statement from me but they never ever attempted to draw an identikit of the shooter,” he said. With murder allegations hanging over his head, Kevin said he struggled for a long time to convince his children Kershin, 24, Tyron 18, and Jae-Dene, 13, that he was innocent. “Thankfully, through professional counselling, my kids are now convinced that I had nothing to do with Denise's death." Sunday Tribune