DURBAN - Little Ariella Cocorozis was admitted to hospital a day after her fifth birthday in September. She had fallen to the ground in class at her pre-school in Musgrave. Two days later, a neurosurgeon diagnosed the spunky and vivacious 5-year-old with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), a rare and highly aggressive brain tumor found in the brainstem. A crowdfunding campaign has since been opened to help save the life of the little girl who loves to sing and dance. More than R170 000 has been raised so far on Back-a-Buddy, about R330 000 short of the R500 000 that her parents need to raise for her to further her treatment and to raise awareness, in the hope that one day a cure for  would be found. “Today Ariella had her 12th radiation treatment after spending a much-needed weekend at home with mom and dad. Her medical team is pleased with her progress and we are all sending positive thoughts and prayers that her healing is moving in the right direction. Ariella will be having daily radiation sessions until Friday. Please keep her in your thoughts and prayers,” her mother Emilia wrote on her Facebook page, For the love of Ariella.   Her parents Emelia and John, said there had been an increase in symptoms, but she had lost none of her shine. “Her ability to light up a room with her joy, humour and intellect is indescribable, finding her way into the hearts of all,” said her parents in a message on BackaBuddy. “The symptoms of DIPG develop very rapidly, these include; problems controlling eye movements, speech, swallowing, walking and coordination,” her parents said.   The little girl is being treated at the Parklands Hospital on the Berea. “She is such a lovely and bright girl,” she said. The family said children diagnosed with DIPG lived typically for up to 9 months after diagnosis and only one in 10 lived for longer than two years. The family said the parents had been unable to carry on working since she was diagnosed in September. Donations will be used towards medical shortfalls and hospital expenses. “We are also currently researching clinical trials overseas which may be our only hope at finding a cure or offering Ariella a better quality of life. These trials and other costs involved can be exorbitant, sometimes totalling $500,000 or more. We need support to fund her treatment but also to raise awareness in the hopes of one day finding a cure for these beautiful little warriors”.