The installation of fitness gym equipment in urban areas commenced in 2011 when it was reported South Africa faced an obesity epidemic. Sport and Recreation SA, together with the sports ministry outlined their programme to install outdoor gym equipment to address the concern about the high prevalence of lifestyle diseases in our country mainly due to the lack of physical activity. Since 2012, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Sport and Recreation rolled out 33 outdoor gyms in partnership with local municipalities. The budget allocation for 11 outdoor gyms in 11 districts was R8.2million during 2015/2016. While this is a great way to get people physically active, it was also a knee-jerk reaction without a constructive long-term strategy to address the obesity challenge. The installation of the gyms did not take into consideration safety (in use and the environment), maintenance, inclusion, safety audits and repairs. As a result, there were many outdoor gyms that have fallen into a state of disrepair which poses a safety hazard and is in contravention of the occupational health and safety act. The installation of these outdoor gyms was not compliant with safety standards: poor maintenance and monitoring of these facilities. The intention is a good one but they can become hazardous and cause more injuries and disabilities as a result of the moving parts in some equipment. This could result in increased medical costs and liabilities. The positioning of these gyms is also questionable. An outdoor gym has been installed in a park in La Lucia close to a popular gym, Prestondale in close proximity to Gateway and Cornubia Virgin Active gyms. Historically, disadvantaged communities did not have access to proper sport and recreation facilities and this public funding service allocation should prioritise these areas to ensure accessible and convenient resources in marginalised communities. Consultation with community-based structures, playground safety experts and professionals should be consulted for future implementation of these outdoor gyms. The Freedom Charter, in 1955, declared “rest, leisure and recreation shall be the right of all”. As a human right, we would like to see the public service deliver on this promise. Sunday Tribune