Now he’s condensed them into a book, The Sexy Ugly Beautifuls, which tells of the many waves, colourful characters, unusual places and raucous adventures along the way. Growing up in Glenwood, McCarthy learned to swim in Durban’s beachfront baths with chief lifeguard at that time, Joe “the man mountain” as his swim instructor. “I’ve had this lifelong love affair with the ocean, and my true north was to find the biggest and most perfect wave,” he said. After attending UCT, McCarthy joined the pro surfing circuit for two years and, with help from SA surf legend, Shaun Tomson, headed for the thunderous tubes of Hawaii’s North Shore. “I was able to slide in on his (Tomson’s) coat tails as he was extraordinarily connected. “In Hawaii, I fell in love with the waves, the people and the geography and they have some of the biggest and most consistent waves,” he said, adding that the South African, Mozambique and Namibian coastlines are the best-kept secret when it comes to some of the best waves in the world. “I have travelled all over the world, and we have great waves here (SA), and probably the least understood, in terms of the volumes of good waves.” McCarthy is also no stranger to going off the beaten track to find those wild waves, particularly in southern Mozambique, northern KZN and the Transkei. “Namibia is the second least densely populated country in the world, and they have extraordinary waves there. I don’t want to go where there are lots of other surfers.” His book is not only for surfers though, but also for those who love an adventure. Each of the 51 chapters tells a different story. So it can be read separately. If read together, it becomes a synchronised tale. Having largely travelled by himself, McCarthy said that allowed him to meet “an incredible array of characters” during which time he kept a poetry journal. Reading through his journal again a couple of years ago brought back many memories and the idea for a book. “I suppose it’s very old school and underground to do a book. I’ve written it in a way that I hope surfers, and non-surfers, will be entertained. It also shares insight into the love of the ocean for those who have not connected to the ocean.” After returning to South Africa, he owned a number of different surf publications and it was through these he rubbed shoulders with many celebs. Apart from holding surfing, free diving and swimming courses around the world, McCarthy hosts The Greener Surfer website and is involved in research and development of environmentally friendly products. The Sexy Ugly Beautifuls is available at a cost of R250 and can be ordered from the website www.thesexyuglybeautifuls.com Independent On Saturday