Durban -  Nineteen suspects linked to a series of several explosive devices that were planted around Durban as well as the deadly mosque attack in Verulam were expected to appear in the Verulam Magistrate's Court on Monday. Between March and August this year, Durban and surrounding areas were plagued with several incidents of placing and detonating of these devices including widespread hoax callers. Some of the devices were planted in Woolworth stores in the city. In May at least two men attacked the Imam Hussein Mosque in Verulam that left Abbas Essop dead and two others injured. A police task team from the Hawks, comprising members Crimes Against the State, Crime Intelligence, the Forensic Unit, the National Prosecuting Authority arrested 19 people last week Friday in and around Durban. Hawks spokesperson, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said during the arrest, various items were confiscated including a readymade incendiary device. "Members also managed to rescue a victim who was found chained and malnourished inside a dungeon in one of the houses.  The victim is under police protection in one of the hospitals in the Kwazulu Natal province," he said. The suspects are likely face charges of murder, attempted murder, extortion, kidnapping, contravention of the Explosive Act and arson. More charges cannot be ruled out. Meanwhile, Minister of Police General Bheki Cele, said: “Government has deemed the incidents very serious and they demanded a thorough investigation to bring the perpetrators to book. Nothing will distract or divert our attention from creating a safe and secure environment for all people of South Africa. “I also want to reiterate the government stance and reassure South Africans that we, as the South African Police Service, will continue to do everything within our constitutional mandate to ensure that people are and feel safe," said Minister Cele. Police Minister General Bheki Cele welcomed the arrests of the 19 suspects linked to incendiary devices and congratulated the multi-disciplinary team for tirelessly working to ensure peace and stability is restored in Durban,” Minister Cele concluded. Daily News 